


Table of Contents

Edit / Update TNPDS Smart Ration Card DetailsTNPDS Smart Card Related Services – Addition / Deletion of Name & Address ChangeTamilnadu TNPDS Smart Ration Card Helpline
Tamilnadu state government is inviting applications for correction of details in the new smart cards. Candidates can access these services at the official website of Tamilnadu Public Distribution System (பொது விநியோகத் திட்டம், தமிழ்நாடு) at www.tnpds.gov.in. Here candidates can edit / update their name, age etc. along with checking their status of request. Other Smart Card Services like addition / deletion of member, change of address, family head member change, card surrender / cancellation are also available.
Previously, all the old ration cards for PDS are replaced with Smart Ration Cards by the TN state government. All the beneficiaries who have previously filled the online application form new TNPDS Smart Ration Card can modify their details. Even candidates can check their smart ration card application status. This online system of modification in the name, age, address, addition / deletion of new members have resulted in the ease of availing ration from the PDS System. 
Candidates who already possess their smart ration card can use their registered mobile number to edit / update their requests. Even the Card Related Service Request status is also available at the same website tnpds.gov.in. Users can make corrections in name, age, address & other details of the smart card and add or remove a family member, change the head of family or even can surrender or cancel their card.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Edit / Update TNPDS Smart Ration Card Details
Below is the complete procedure for correction of details in the new TN Smart Ration Card / Family Card:-

STEP 1 – Go to the official website of Tamilnadu Public Distribution System at tnpds.gov.in and choose the language. Default language for this website is Tamil language.
STEP 2 – Click at any of the options under the “Smart Card Related Services” or “மின்னணு அட்டை தொடர்பான சேவைகள்” section. This section is present on the right side as shown in the figure below:
TNPDS Smart Card Edit / Update Details
STEP 3 – After clicking the link, a new window will open as shown in the figure below where candidates have to enter the registered mobile number to open the correction form.
TNPDS Smart Ration Card Correction Login
STEP 4 – After entering the mobile number, an OTP will be sent on the registered mobile number. Verify the OTP and then enter the details which a candidates needs to edit / update along with uploading of supporting documents.
STEP 5 – Candidates can upload the photo of the proof in jpeg, gif, png format under 100 kb size in the correction window. Finally, candidates can click at the “Submit” button at the bottom.
STEP 6 – After successful submission of the correction request, you will get a reference number from which you can track your status of service request through the link “Status of Request” as shown in the Step 2. The “TNPDS Service Request Status” window will appear as follows:-
TNPDS Smart Ration Card Modification Request Status

All the candidates can also access the smart card related services which are described in the below mentioned sections. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

TNPDS Smart Card Related Services – Addition / Deletion of Name & Address Change
All the candidates with smart ration cards can now add a new family member or delete an existing family member. This addition will result in providing ration card to the new member also. For this, candidates can access the TNPDS Smart Card Related Services. Below is the procedure to add / delete the name of a family member from the ration card:-

Addition of a Family Member –

Candidates can add a new member through visiting the same official website tnpds.gov.in
Then click the “Add Member” link under the ‘Smart Card Related Services’ section as shown in the figure below:-
TNPDS Smart Ration Card Add Remove Member Address Change
Here enter the registered mobile number and the details of new family member along with his / her photo to get the name of the family member included in the ration card.


Deletion of a Family Member –

To delete the name of the family member, click the “Remove Family Member” link under the same “Smart Card Related Services” section as shown above.
Then enter the registered mobile number and enter the details of the existing family member to exclude them from ration card.


Change of Address – All the candidates can also change the address in the tamilnadu smart ration card and add a new address through clicking the “Change of Address” link as shown above. Follow the similar process as above and upload the new residence proof to edit / update the address.

All these modifications can be done online and even the smart ration card holders can consistently check the status of their service request. Also the facility for change in the family head member change and card surrender / cancellation is also available. Also the candidates can check the card related service request status. 
Tamilnadu TNPDS Smart Ration Card Helpline
— For any queries or doubts you can call on the toll free helpline number of Public Distribution System (PDS) at 1967 or 1800-425-5901.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
