
Chief Minister Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme in Tamil Nadu is a lofty insurance scheme launched by the state government in association with the United India Insurance Company. The scheme now covers 1.57 crore families including migrant workers and undocumented orphans. Chief Minster’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme has broadened its coverage and also included 321 more medical procedures.
Along with United India Insurance Company, the Chief Minster’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme renewed on 10th January 2017. The scheme will have more than 1,100 treatment procedures including the coverage of congenital anomalies. The government renewed the contract for four-year terms with an annual premium payment of Rs. 1,069 crores.
As per the information from Public Health and Preventive Medicine department, the government is paying Rs. 699 on per family basis while earlier, the amount was Rs. 497. The departments have the responsibility for implementing the scheme properly.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Treatment Procedures Covered under CM Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme
Tamil Nadu State Health Insurance Scheme will be covering the treatments and procedures including, heart and lung transplants, cochlear implant, bone marrow transport, radiation therapy, surgical oncology. For the first time in India, it is the first scheme to cover the cover bariatric surgery for the morbidly obese.
The detailed list of procedures covered under the scheme are available at http://www.cmchistn.com/procedure.php 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The coverage amount under the scheme has been increased from Rs. 1.5 lacs to Rs. 2.0 lacs for surgical procedures. And for critical illness, if the surgery or treatment procedure exceeds the insured limit, the government have set up a corpus fund to pay for the entire treatment. 
It is the first attempt of Tamil Nadu state government towards providing a health insurance cover to migrant workers and orphans. The scheme was not benefiting this category from a long time due to the lack of documentation, address and residence proof. With some amendments and modification in State Health Insurance Scheme, the government hopes to reach those workers and their children who have no or less documents.
People with annual income of less than Rs. 72,000 are eligible for the scheme. Detailed eligibility criteria and other information about Chief Minister Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme is available at the official website at below link.
http://www.cmchistn.com
HELPLINE
A 24 hour Call Centre has been set up at CMCHISTN Project Office with sufficient manpower with toll free help line. The Toll Free Number is 1800 425 3993. The Toll Free Line is competent to answer the query in Tamil.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
