
PM Narendra Modi has launched the ambitious Amma Two Wheeler Scheme for women in Tamil Nadu. Subsequently, govt. will provide 50% subsidy up to Rs. 25000 on the purchase of 2 wheeler vehicles – scooters and mopheds to the working women. Accordingly, PM Modi has launched Amma Scooter Scheme on the 70th birth anniversary of J Jayalalithaa in Chennai.
To mark the launch of 2 wheeler scheme, PM Modi has handed over the keys and Registration certificates to five working women of TN. The names of the beneficiaries are – Madhumala, D.Deepa, S. Farzana, R. Tangamala and G. Kavita. The Amma 2 Wheeler Scheme / Amma Scooter Scheme has been rolled out on 24 February 2018 for Women Empowerment. 
Amma 2 wheeler scheme will cover all those working women in the age group of 18 to 40 years whose annual income is less than Rs. 2.5 lakhs. Chief Minister K Palaniswami and deputy CM O Panneerselvam were also present at the launch event.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Amma Two Wheeler Scheme / Amma Scooter Scheme – Launch Event
The important features and highlights of the launch event of Amma 2 Wheeler Scheme are as follows:-

This Two Wheeler Scheme for women empowerment will provide subsidy of 50% upto Rs. 25000 on the purchase of mopheds and scooters.
All the women in Tamil Nadu state between the age of 18 – 40 years can avail the benefits of this scheme on the purchase of scooties having less than 125 cc capacity.
However, only one female in a family can apply for this scheme whose annual income is less than Rs. 2.50 lakh per annum can avail the subsidy benefits. Moreover, govt. will give priority to families run by Individual women and disabled.
At the roll-out of this scheme on 24 February 2018 in Chennai, honorable Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given keys and copies of Registration Certificates (RC) to 5 working women. These women includes an accountant, salesperson, accountant and an assistant in private school.
Moreover, PM Modi has also launched a massive 70 lakh sapling tree plantation drive at the launch event in Tamil Nadu.
Mr E Palaniswami also urge PM Modi to take steps to set up Cauvery Management Board and Cauvery Water Regulatory Committee as per SC decision. CM also recalled Late J Jayalalithaa’s welfare scheme like Thalikku Thangam (gold for mangalsutra) for women, free cow and goats, free of cost computers for students and setting up of new colleges for rural children.

Amma 2 Wheeler Scheme Application Form
All the candidates can download the Amma Scooter Scheme Application Form and apply for 50% subsidy under 2 wheeler scheme. The application form in PDF format are available for both rural and urban areas. Candidates can directly download this form through the link given below:-
Amma 2 Wheeler Scheme 2018 Application Form
Moreover candidates can also download the subsidy claim form of Amma 2 wheeler scheme and avail the benefits.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

TN Governor Banwarilal Purohit, E Palaniswami and other top official welcomes PM Modi at Chennai Airport. Then PM flew to INS Adyar Naval base located near Marina beach and then he reaches the function venue – Kalaivanar Arangam by road. Earlier in this event, E Palaniswami presented a memento and O Panneerselvam presented a shawl to welcome PM Modi.
As per the reports, 3,36,103 women have made applications for this scheme and scrutiny process is undergoing. This scheme is only for the welfare of women and Women Empowerment. Lok Sabha Deputy Speaker M Thambidurai, Union Minister Pon Radhakrishnan, Tamil Nadu Ministers, MLAs were also present at this event.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
