
तमिलनाडु वोटर लिस्ट 2020 (PDF) अब सीईओ की आधिकारिक वेबसाइट elections.tn.gov.in पर उपलब्ध है, नयी मतदाता सूची में अपना नाम अपनी जानकारी या EPIC नंबर के आधार पर खोजें और वोटर ID कार्ड डाउनलोड करेंElection Commission of India (ECI) had announced Lok Sabha election dates for voting in the country. In the Tamil Nadu state, voting for 39 LS seats was held in Phase 2 on 18th April 2019. Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) has published Tamilnadu CEO Voter List with Photo (voter slips) at elections.tn.gov.in. Now citizens can make Tamilnadu Voter List 2020 PDF (Electoral Rolls) download / Voter ID Card. Voters can even search their name online in CEO Tamilnadu Voter List 2020 by name, EPIC number & district wise / area wise or assembly constituency wise.
The updated Tamilnadu CEO Voter List 2020 (PDF Electoral Roll) is available online at the official website. People can also find their name online in the CEO Tamil Nadu Voters List with Photo before casting their important vote. As the Lok Sabha elections are inching closer, CEO dept. is regularly updating its voters database. All those people who still don’t have voter card can now make registration and apply online at the nearest election office.
People can download the entire PDF file of the Electoral Roll and perform manual searching in the Tamilnadu Voter List 2020. In addition to this, people can adopt a hassle free process and check their names online.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

CEO Tamilnadu Voter List 2020 (PDF Electoral Roll) Download
The complete procedure to search and download the PDF Electoral Roll / District-Wise CEO Voter List 2020 Tamilnadu has been specified as follows:-

Firstly, visit the official CEO Tamilnadu website at elections.tn.gov.in
At the homepage, click at the “Elections” tab present under ‘Our Services’ section or directly click http://www.elections.tn.gov.in/Elections.aspx to open the window as shown below:-
Tamil Nadu Voter List 2020 PDF Download
Here candidates can click at the “Final Electoral Rolls SSR 2020” tab or directly click http://elections.tn.gov.in/SSR2019.aspx link to open the page as shown below:-
Voter ID Card Tamilnadu with Photo
Here candidates can click at the “Mother Roll Reprinted SSR 2020” tab to open the page to show PDF electoral rolls of Tamilnadu
elections.tn.gov.in Voter List 2020 Tamil Nadu
Here candidates can select the “District name” and “Assembly Constituency name” to open the polling station page as shown below:-
Tamilnadu Voter List 2020 PDF in Tamil
Next candidates can enter the verification code to open the PDF Electoral Rolls of Tamilnadu as shown below:-
Tamilnadu Voter List 2020 PDF Download

People can download this Tamilnadu PDF electoral rolls file and can perform manual search to find their name online in the complete Tamilnadu CEO Voter List PDF with Photo.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

TN Voter ID Card Download – Find Name in CEO Voter List 2020 Tamil Nadu
Below is the complete procedure to find your name online in the CEO Voter List 2020 Tamil Nadu and download the Voter ID Card:-

Visit the same official website of CEO dept. of Tamilnadu at elections.tn.gov.in
At the homepage, click at the “Our Services / Electoral Services” option or directly click at the link http://www.elections.tn.gov.in/VoterServices.aspx
The Tamilnadu Voter Services page for citizens will appear as shown below:-
Check Name CEO Voter List 2020 Tamil Nadu
Next click at the “Search Voter List” tab to find name online. This tab will redirect you to the https://electoralsearch.in/ page as shown below:-
Tamil Nadu Voter List Name Search

Here people can find whether their name appears in the CEO Tamilnadu Voter List 2020 by entering their name, date of birth, district, assembly constituency or location on map. In case the name of the citizen does not appears in the Voters List 2019, then such candidates will have to fill FORM 6 for inclusion of their name in the CEO TN Voter List. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: www.elections.tn.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
