
Tamil Nadu govt. has started distributing Amma Maternity Nutrition Kit under Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy Maternity Benefit Scheme for pregnant women. The state is leading the country in health sector and the sophisticated medicare services, manpower and infrastructure makes the states a role model to be emulated. 
The state govt. has launched Amma Maternity Nutrition Kit in which kits worth Rs. 4,000 would be given to pregnant women. This scheme was launched at the Egmore Government Maternity Hospital and govt. has taken into account the need to enhance the facilities at govt. hospitals across the state.
All those women who have delivered babies before 1 January are not eligible under the revised scheme.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Tamil Nadu Amma Maternity Nutrition Kit Scheme
The assistance under the Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy Maternity Benefit Scheme has already been raised to Rs. 18,000 this year. Under this scheme, an Amma Maternity Nutrition Kit worth Rs. 4,000 would also be provided. Around 12 nutritious items including dry fruits such as dates that are necessary for health pregnancy would be added in kit.
These Amma Maternity Nutrition Kits would be distributed twice once at the 12th week and for the second time between 16th and 20th week of pregnancy. In the last 8 years, Tamil Nadu govt. has allocated Rs. 62,705.17 crore to the health department. The state govt. has allocated Rs. 12,563.83 crore for the health sector in the FY 2019-20. Around 17 lakh mothers had already been benefitted under the Amma Baby Kit which was launched by late CM J. Jayalalithaa (Amma) in September 2015.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The Amma Maternity Nutrition Kit Scheme which was announced during FY 2018 – 19 aims to provide iron tonic and nutritional supplements to pregnant women. This kit is given under the Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy Maternity Benefit Scheme under which the pregnant women will receive cash assistance. Previously, the state govt. has raised assistance from Rs. 12,000 to Rs. 18,000. Besides providing assistance of Rs. 14,000, each beneficiary would provide Amma Maternity Nutrition Kit worth Rs. 4,000. 

மாண்புமிகு தமிழக முதல்வர் அவர்கள் இன்று, எழும்பூர் மகளிர் மகப்பேறு நோயியல் நிலையம் மற்றும் அரசு மகளிர் மற்றும் சிறார் நல மருத்துவமனையில் நடைபெற்ற நிகழ்ச்சியில், "கர்ப்பிணி தாய்மார்களுக்கு அம்ம தாய்சேய் நலப் பொட்டலங்கள்" வழங்கி, விழா பேருரை ஆற்றினார். #TNGovt pic.twitter.com/vtOPvS7EoF
— Edappadi K Palaniswami (@CMOTamilNadu) March 4, 2019

Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy Maternity Benefit Scheme in Tamil Nadu is going to benefit around 8 lakh pregnant women every year. This scheme for pregnant women would significantly reduce the maternal and infant mortality rates.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
