
Tamil Nadu government has announced Free Dhoti and Saree Scheme for Pongal Festival. Subsequently, Thai Pongal is a harvest festival in the Tamil Nadu state which is dedicated to Sun God. Accordingly, this scheme will benefit the poor people and also the Handloom Weavers who makes these sarees. This scheme will benefit more than 3 crore under-privileged people.
Thai Pongal festival is celebrated for 4 days as per the Tamil Calendar and the people usually celebrates it from 14 January to 17 January. Tamil Nadu state govt. will provide these dhotis and sarees to the people as a gift for Pongal festival.
At the official launch, the state govt. has distributed free sarees and dhotis to 7 beneficiaries. The state govt. is going to distribute the Polycot Sarees.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Details of Free Dhoti and Saree Scheme
The important features and highlights of this scheme are as follows:-
AIADMK Founder MG Ramachandran introduced the Free Dhoti and Saree Scheme in 1983.
This primary objective of this scheme is to help the poor and economically weaker sections of the society.
Moreover, this scheme also provides employment opportunities to the poor people in the textile and handloom industry. 
This scheme will improve the condition of the handloom weavers and raise their standard of living as the state govt. will procure sarees and dhotis from them. 
Under this scheme, the state govt. will distribute around 3.24 crore dhotis and sarees to the beneficiaries for Pongal.
Out of these, the number of sarees is 1.56 crore and rest are dhotis.
Accordingly, this scheme will cost around Rs. 484.25 crore to the state government.

Free Bicycle Scheme
TN state govt. has also implemented a free bicycle scheme for the students of Class XI in the state. AIADMK introduced this scheme for the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes students in the year 2001-2002. Under this scheme, govt. will provide free bicycles to around 2.7 lakh boys and 3.48 lakh girls.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

TN govt. now extends this scheme to all the schools which receives financial assistance from the state government. The state govt. will spend a total amount of Rs. 244 crores for the successful implementation of this scheme. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
