
Tamil Nadu govt. has announced hike in the insurance cover under CM’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme (CMCHIS). Now the health insurance coverage has been raised from the existing Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh per year. This is in accordance with the Ayushman Bharat Yojana (PM Jan Arogya Yojana) launched by the central government.
Tamilnadu CM has announced that beneficiaries of CMCHISTN will receive an additional Rs. 3 lakh insurance coverage totalling to Rs. 5 lakh. The decision is going to benefit 1.58 crore families in the state and the new coverage under CMCHIS scheme will come into effect from 1 December 2018. 
People can avail cashless and paperless treatment in any of the empanelled hospitals under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana. PMJAY provides Rs. 5 lakh health insurance coverage for secondary and tertiary hospitalization. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

TN CM’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme (CMCHIS) Coverage Hiked
Tamil Nadu’s enhanced health insurance cover of Rs. 5 lakh for 1.58 crore families will come into effect from 1 December 2018 as a cashless scheme. The state govt. has signed MoU with central officials for linking the insurance schemes, another 10 lakh families who weren’t in the state scheme will be added to combined insurance scheme. 
The state govt. will now cover 1,027 medical procedures for 1.57 crore families. People who earns less than 72,000 p.a or receives social security benefits such as old age or widow pensions or disability pension are eligible. Central govt. Ayushman Bharat Yojana is for marginalized people such as rag pickers and rickshaw pullers. Health department will now work on the database provided by the central government to enrol people who are missing from the state list.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

This scheme would add another 10 lakh people under the comprehensive health insurance scheme. Beneficiaries would be able to get treatment at govt. hospital or at more than 700 empanelled private hospitals. Nearly, 40% of the hospitals are running with NABH accreditation. The state govt. will cover 1,027 procedures against the central govt. 1,300 medical procedures in the private sector. 
Till date, around 26.96 lakh people have been benefitted by the CM’s comprehensive health insurance scheme (CMCHIS) who have availed medical treatments worth Rs. 5,133 crore. People can now easily avail Rs. 5 lakh insurance benefits under CMCHIS scheme. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
