
The state government of Tamil Nadu has launched Tatkal scheme across the state. Under the scheme, the state government will provide power connection to the farmers. The benefit of the scheme is only for those farmers who are willing to adopt agriculture service connection as per terms and condition in the scheme. The government will provide them free of cost agriculture electricity connection.
Under Tatkal Scheme, the state government will provide power connection to the farmers who are willing to pay the amount of power motors. As per the released notification, the government has already distributed many connections to the farmers and now the government has fixed the target to distribute over 50,000 connections.
Tatkal Scheme Free Power Connection
Under the scheme, the farmer of the state will have to pay an amount of Rs. 2.5 lakh for a 7.5 HP motor while Rs. 3 lakh for a 10 HP motor and Rs. 4 lakh for 15 HP motor. The farmer who will buy any motor according to above description will get free agriculture electricity connection by Tamil Nadu government.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Moreover, Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (TANGEDCO) which is a nodal agency has received about 20,000 application forms from farmers to take power connection under TN Tatkal Scheme. In addition, the board has provide about 3,500 connection for the farmers in the state.
Tatkal Scheme Application Form
The farmer has to fill an application form to get the free power connection. The farmer can get the application form by visiting on www.tangedco.gov.in. The farmers can also download the application form by clicking on the below link. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Download Taktal Scheme Application Form
This application form is available in PDF format with attached the guidelines of the scheme. Below is given the screenshot of the application form.
Tatkal Scheme Application Form
The application form fees for the registration of Tatkal Scheme is Rs. 50/- which is to be paid at the time of application submission to executive engineer / operation and maintenance office of the jurisdiction concerned.
More details about the scheme are available on the official website at www.tangedco.gov.in





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
