


Table of Contents

Download Amma Two Wheeler Scheme 2019 Application Form PDFAmma Two Wheeler Scheme Subsidy Claim Form DownloadAmma 2 Wheeler Scheme 2019 Eligibility CriteriaList of Documents for Amma Two Wheeler Scheme 2019PM Modi Launching Amma Two Wheeler Scheme – BackgroundReferences
Tamilnadu govt. invites application forms for the Amma Two Wheeler Scheme 2019 at tamilnadumahalir.org every year. Subsequently, all the women between 18 to 45 years of age can avail 50% govt. subsidy or Rs. 25,000 (whichever is less) on the purchase of mopheds and scooters. Accordingly, interested candidates can download the Amma 2 Wheeler Scheme offline applications in PDF format & check application status from the official website of Tamil Nadu Corporation for Development of Women. Check new eligibility criteria as per government order released on 29 November 2019 (updated in section below). 
Amma 2 wheeler scheme 2019 will make women economically independent and self confident. Subsequently, this scheme is for “Women Empowerment” in the Tamil Nadu state. All the women having annual income of less than Rs. 2.50 lakhs can avail maximum 50% or Rs. 25000 subsidy. The remaining amount is to be borne by the beneficiary by bank loans or other means. Previous Application Form filling process was started on 8 January 2019 and ended on 18 January 2019.
One female member in a family can apply for this scheme. TN state govt. had previously rolled out this scheme on 24 February 2018. The complete details to download the Amma Two Wheeler Scheme application form 2019 and subsidy claim form are given below.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Download Amma Two Wheeler Scheme 2019 Application Form PDF
All the women candidates seeking 50% subsidy on the purchase of vehicle can download the application form in PDF Format and submit it to the concerned authorities. Accordingly, direct link to download the Amma 2 Wheeler Scheme application form (rural and urban) are as follows:-
Application Form – Rural – Amma Two Wheeler Scheme Rural Form PDF.
Amma Two Wheeler Scheme Application Form
Application Form – Urban – Amma Two Wheeler Scheme Urban Application Form PDF
Amma Two Wheeler Scheme Form PDF
Field Verification Form (Office use) – Amma 2 Wheeler Scheme Field Verification Form Download
Candidates have to download and take a printout of the application form. Afterwards, candidates can fill in all the necessary details including Personal details, Bank details etc.
Applicants have to affix recent passport size photograph to complete the application form.

The official notification for Amma Two Wheeler Subsidy Scheme 2019 has been released. After filling the complete Amma 2 Wheeler Scheme application form, candidates must submit the form pdf to the concerned authorities before the last date to get subsidy on purchasing vehicles.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Amma Two Wheeler Scheme Subsidy Claim Form Download
Here is the direct link to download the 50% subsidy claim form for purchasing scooters, scooty and mopheds for women:-
Subsidy Claim Form Download – Amma 2 Wheeler Subsidy Claim Form
Amma Two Wheeler Subsidy Claim Form
After receipt of registration certificate and completion of physical verification process, subsidy is released directly into loan / bank account of the beneficiary.
Amma 2 Wheeler Scheme 2019 Eligibility Criteria
The candidate must fulfill the following eligibility criteria to apply for the govt. subsidy under Amma Two Wheeler Scheme:-

All the applicants must be a women residing in state of Tamil Nadu.
Subsequently, women applicant must belong to the age group of 18 to 45 years. (earlier 18 to 40 years)
Women working on special time scale of pay whose annual income is less than Rs. 2.50 lakh are eligible. These includes anganwadi workers, helpers, noon meal organisers, cooks and assistants, women workers in cooperative societies/ shops and other women holding similar positions in various government departments, government undertakings, urban and rural local bodies will all are now eligible for getting subsidy under the scheme.
Only one women in any family can apply for the scheme.
Moreover, this subsidy remain applicable only to the vehicles having capacity of less than 125 cc.

Furthermore, preference will be given to the families which are run by an individual woman, disabled and transgenders. The earlier norm of the beneficiary having to have “appeared” for class 8th exam – irrespective of whether they have passed or failed – has been deleted in the amended government order (G.O) released on 29 November 2019. 
List of Documents for Amma Two Wheeler Scheme 2019
The following documents are to be submitted along with the completed application form in order to apply for the Amma 2 wheeler scheme:-


List of Documents


Age Proof
Learner’s / Driving License (LLR / DL)


Income Certificate
Education Certificate (8th pass / fail)


Community Certificate (for SC / ST)
Bank Account Details


Residence Proof
Employment Proof


Priority Certificate
Invoice / Quotation of the Vehicle


Field Verification Officer will check the documents as per checklist of documents. Candidates can download Amma 2 Wheeler Scheme Errata to avail complete information on various aspects of the scheme.
PM Modi Launching Amma Two Wheeler Scheme – Background
Pradhan Mantri had launched the Amma Two wheeler scheme in Chennai. As a mark of launching, the Prime minister handed over the keys of new scooties at 50% subsidy to 5 working women. The name of these women are Madhumala, D.Deepa, S. Farzana, R. Tangamala, G. Kavita.
PM Modi Amma Two Wheeler Scheme
This is the dream project of late CM J Jayalaithaa for the beneficial of working women. This initiative will help in Women Empowerment and protection of nature.
References
— Amma 2 Wheeler Scheme Operational Guidelines
— For more details, visit the official website tamilnadumahalir.org
— To download all forms PDF for Amma 2 Wheeler Scheme, click at http://tamilnadumahalir.org/tnatws.html 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
