
Tamil Nadu govt. has started Athikadavu Avinashi Groundwater Recharge & Drinking Water Supply Scheme. TN govt. allocated Rs. 500 crore more in Budget for Athikadavu Avinashi Scheme 2020-21. The state govt. had given administrative sanction to implement the scheme on 28 March 2018. Environment Clearance was given on 19 December 2019. The main purpose of this scheme is to recharge and raise the ground water levels.
The Athikadavu Avinashi Scheme aims to ensure fresh drinking water supply to all households in the state. The main aim is to provide piped water supply to each family across the Tamil Nadu state. An amount of Rs. 1,000 crore was sanctioned for the project estimated to cost Rs. 1,652 crore. A pipeline is to be created for 1,058 Km and 6 pump houses constructed.
A total of 1,048 water bodies would benefit from the Athikadavu Avinashi Scheme to provide irrigation facilities to people.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Tamil Nadu Athikadavu Avinashi Scheme 2020
TN Athikadavu Avinashi Scheme will provide irrigation facility to 24,468 acres in drought prone areas and groundwater depleted areas in Erode, Tirupur and Coimbatore districts. Water would be pumped from the Bhavani river. The water bodies to be fed include tanks, ponds and check dams in Erode, Tirupur and Coimbatore districts. These cover Perundurai, Chennimalai, Nambiyur, Gobichettipalayam, Bhavanisagar, Uthukuli, Avinashi, Tirupur, Annur, Sulur, Sarkarsamakulam, Periyanaickenpalayam and Karamadai blocks.
Around 1.5 TMC surplus water would be drawn from the Bhavani basin (limited to pumping of 250 cusecs for 70 days). TN Athikadavu Avinashi Scheme will cater to drinking water needs, augment ground water and will provide irrigation facilities in drought hit areas. The state govt. has sanctioned Rs. 500 crore in Budget 2020-21 for speedy implementation of Athikadavu-Avinashi Groundwater Recharge Scheme.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The check dams which are built between ponds and tanks for water conservation and percolation should be filled along with ponds and tanks. Only this would provide real time benefit. The check dams are real infrastructure for ground water augmentation should be neglected. The Athikadavu Avinashi Scheme must be speeded up and finished on target before 2021 assembly elections. Moreover, Phase 2 of scheme (Sirumugai-Periyakallipatti and Perundurai and surrounding areas) as proposed by the TN government to augment the needs of left out areas should be started at the earliest.
In addition to this, TN govt. has started construction of 4 pump houses and work on the remaining 2 pump houses will begin next week and pipelines would be laid soon. Tamilnadu govt. has sanctioned Rs. 230 crore for rehabilitation of Noyyal river basin. As per the PWD officials, the Noyyal River basin is 158.35 km long and has 18 anicuts. The entire stretch of the river basin is to be delisted and vegetation removed from the bunds and the river.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/coimbatore/rs-500-crore-more-for-athikadavu-avinashi-scheme-in-budget/articleshow/74143469.cms
SAVE AS PDF
