
Tamil Nadu govt has launched Free Country Chicken Scheme 2019 for rural women to promote backyard poultry farming. Under this scheme, govt. will distribute 50 country chicken breed to women across the state. TN Free Country Chicken Scheme was announced in June 2018 to provide four-week-old roosters, hens and cages to around 77,000 rural women. 
Tamilnadu Free Country Chicken Scheme 2019 is going to be implemented in all the districts except Chennai. The allocated sum under poultry development scheme has now been raised to 25 crore. 
Marking the official launch of the scheme, CM has distributed the country chicken to 5 women beneficiaries.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Tamil Nadu Free Country Chicken Scheme 2019
Tamilnadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami on 10 January 2019 has launched a slew of programmes which includes free distribution of 50 country chicken breed in order to promote backyard poultry farming. TN Free Country Chicken Scheme 2019 will provide 4 week old roosters, hens and cages to 77,000 rural women. The state govt. will implement in all districts except Chennai and total allocated sum under poultry development scheme is hiked to Rs. 25 crore.
CM has launched this scheme by distributing country chicken to five beneficiaries and advised the women beneficiaries to take care of the poultry. Animal Husbandry department is planning to setup teams of beneficiaries of 4 and 5 villages in each panchayat union. TN Free Country Chicken 2019 is going to facilitate easy supply of poultry feed and market the litter.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Under this scheme, as each beneficiary will get 4 week old rooster and hens in equal proportion, people can make profit by selling 20 roosters in 16th week. This scheme is going to ensure sustainable livelihood, the backyard poultry farming is going to create women entrepreneurs and will also increase per capita income and rural economy.

மாண்புமிகு தமிழக முதல்வர் திரு.எடப்பாடி கே.பழனிசாமி அவர்கள் இன்று, கால்நடை பராமரிப்பு துறை மூலம் செயல்படுத்தப்படும் கோழி அபிவிருத்தி திட்டத்தின் கீழ், 77,000 கிராமப்புற பெண்களுக்கு தலா ஒரு பயனாளிக்கு 50 விலையில்லா நாட்டுக்கோழிகள் & கூண்டுகள் வழங்கும் திட்டத்தை துவக்கி வைத்தார். pic.twitter.com/XI6UFpjZc7
— Edappadi K Palaniswami (@CMOTamilNadu) January 10, 2019

Tamil Nadu CM has also inaugurated Theni prison and residential quarters for police, fire and rescue services stations and police stations in various parts of the state worth Rs. 89 crore. CM has also opened a newly built urban administration office campus in MRC Nagar in Chennai. Moreover, the 11-floor building will now become the house the commissionerate of municipal administration and directorate of town panchayats.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
