


Table of Contents

Tamilnadu Free Bicycle Scheme 2020 ApplyTamil Nadu Free Bicycle Scheme Eligibility CriteriaTN Muft Cycle Yojana 2020 Background
Tamil Nadu government has started a TN Free Bicycle Scheme 2019-2020 for students. Under this Muft Cycle Yojana, the state govt. will provide free bicycles to class 11th students of the current academic year. TN Free Cycle Scheme will encourage students to come to school daily on time and help them in getting quality education. All the boys and girls students of government, govt-aided and partly aided schools are eligible. Students can take benefits of TN Free Bike Scheme scheme through their respective school headmaster. 
CM Edappadi K Palaniswami marked the official launch of Free Bicycle Scheme 2020 by providing cycles to 9 students at the secretariat as token gesture. The bicycles under TN Free Bike Scheme would be given to students of 10 districts namely Chhenai, Kancheepuram, Chengalpet, Vellore, Ranipet, Tirupattur, Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Tirunelveli and Tenkasi. 
Here candidates can check the details of TN Free Bicycle Scheme 2020 and eligibility criteria to avail its benefits.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Tamilnadu Free Bicycle Scheme 2020 Apply
The important features and highlights of TN Free Bicycle Scheme 2020 are as follows:-


Tamilnadu Free Bicycle Scheme


Concerned Department
School Education Department


Concerned District
10 Districts


Organisation Name
Welfare Schemes of the School Education Department


Scheme Title / Name
Welfare Schemes of the School Education Department – Supply of Free Bicycles


Sponsored By
State


Beneficiaries
Boys & Girls Students irrespective of category


Benefits Types
Education Benefits


Eligibility criteria
Studying in Class 11th (higher secondary)


How To Avail
School Headmaster


Validity of Scheme
FY 2019, 2020 & 2021 by CM Edappadi K Palaniswami


Firstly Introduced On
2001-02 by CM Jayalalithaa


In case of any complaint, contact the District Educational Officer, Chief Education Officer at the State level and Director of School Education, Directorate of School Education. Chennai 6.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Tamil Nadu Free Bicycle Scheme Eligibility Criteria
A candidate must fulfill the following eligibility criteria to take benefits of TN Free Bicycle Scheme 2020:-

Candidate must be a permanent resident of Tamil Nadu state.
He / She must be studying in class 11th in the Tamilnadu state in either Government or Government aided or Partly aided schools.
The students staying in hostels located within the campus of School are not eligible.
The students of residential schools are also not eligible.

All the eligible students must contact their school administration for availing benefits of TN Free Cycle Yojana 2020.

மாண்புமிகு தமிழ்நாடு முதலமைச்சர் திரு.எடப்பாடி கே.பழனிசாமி அவர்கள் இன்று உள்ளாட்சி தேர்தல் நடைபெறாத 10 மாவட்டங்களின் 11-ம் வகுப்பு பயிலும் மாணவ, மாணவியர்களுக்கு 2019-2020-ம் கல்வியாண்டிற்கு முதற்கட்டமாக விலையில்லா மிதிவண்டிகள் வழங்கும் திட்டத்தை துவக்கி வைத்தார். #TNGovt pic.twitter.com/krCTbYpBu3
— Edappadi K Palaniswami (@CMOTamilNadu) December 23, 2019
 
TN Muft Cycle Yojana 2020 Background
To encourage girl students to pursue education, former CM late J. Jayalalithaa had launched Free Bicycle Scheme in FY 2001-02. This Muft Cycle Yojana was launched for the students of SC / ST category studying in higher secondary. Subsequently, the TN Free Bike Scheme was extended to students of all cateogries in government and govt-aided schools. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chennai/tamil-nadu-cm-launches-free-bicycle-scheme-for-students/articleshow/72943169.cms
SAVE AS PDF
