
Tamil Nadu Government is going to launch an Integrated Farming Scheme for farmers. Subsequently, this scheme will result in the promotion of mixed farming. Accordingly, this type of farming will raise the productivity levels and thus further increase the income of the farmers. This scheme will benefit farmers especially from the poor and economically weaker sections of the society.
Under this scheme, farmers can grow crops on their agricultural land along with some other basic agricultural practices like poultry or dairy farming. This scheme will increase the efficient utilization of agricultural land.
The primary objective to launch this scheme is to promote growth in the agriculture and allied sector. This is essential for the economic development of the rural people.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Integrated Farming Scheme – Details
The important features and highlights of this mixed farming scheme are as follows:-

This scheme will primarily focus on promoting mixed farming techniques to benefit farmers.
Farmers can utilize their agricultural land for cultivation along with other agricultural practices (dairy, poultry).
Moreover, govt. has introduced new farming mechanism to increase the cultivation on the agricultural land.
Tamil Nadu govt. is giving subsidy on purchasing agricultural implements. In addition to this, govt. is also adopting micro-irrigation procedures in farming on a very large scale.
TN govt. is going to adapt a multi-prolonged approach to raise productivity of farmers and thus to raise their living standards.
Furthermore, growth in allied and agriculture sector will help in equal distribution of benefits to the rural population.

Previously, TN govt. had implemented “Mission on Sustainable Dry Land Agriculture” to promote agricultural activities. This scheme had addressed various issue pertaining to the dry land farming which was a major concern for the farmers. Furthermore, this scheme has also helped farmers to increase their total cultivable area under food crops including millets and pulses.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});






(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
