
Tamil Nadu government launches Doorstep Aadhar Enrollment Scheme for children below 5 years of age. This scheme for aadhaar registration of children would facilitate their enrolment from their home itself by providing them with Aadhaar Kits. Door-step Aadhaar Enrolment Scheme for kids would be implemented with an outlay of Rs. 13.61 crore. 
UIDAI provides aadhar number (12 digit unique identification number) to all the citizens to enable them to avail govt. social welfare schemes and services. Till date, there are 122 crore citizens across the country who have been enrolled for Aadhaar. 
Aadhar is the world’s largest biometric ID program and serves as single identity for its users. Now children enrolment can be done in the state without any hassle which will provide them a unique identity. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

TN Doorstep Aadhar Enrollment Scheme for Children (Aadhaar Kit)
This Doorstep Aadhar Enrollment Scheme will provide the facility of door-step registration for aadhaar for children under five years of age. The scheme will enable the officials concerned to collect the biometric data of children from their homes and to issue them with Kits with unique 12 digit Aadhaar number.
Tamil Nadu CM has launched this Doorstep Aadhaar Enrolment (Aadhar Kits) Scheme on 17 December 2018. To mark the official launch of the scheme, CM gave 7 Aadhaar kits containing laptop computers and biometric machines to the officials of Social Welfare Department.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

TN state government is also planning to organize camps for pregnant and lactating women in villages seeking Aadhaar enrollment. Moreover, this aadhaar registration for kids will also enable Anganwadi workers to be involved in aadhar enrollment work and will make aadhar enrolment more popular. 
A total number of 1,302 aadhar kits would be set up in 434 child development scheme offices across Tamil Nadu as part of the Doorstep Aadhar Enrollment Scheme for children. Aadhaar card enables citizens to access various services like opening of bank accounts, obtaining driving licences etc by establishing and authenticating their identity. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
