
Tamil Nadu government has launched Free Dhoti & Free Scheme 2019 for Pongal Festival. Thai Pongal is a harvest festival in the state which is dedicated to Sun god. This scheme is going to benefit the poor people and also the Handloom Weavers who makes these sarees and dhotis. This scheme will benefit around 1.56 crore under-privileged beneficiaries.
As per the Tamil calendar, Thai Pongal festival is being celebrated for 4 days which usually occurs from 14 January to 17 January every year. The state govt. is going to provide these free dhotis and sarees to the people as a gift for Pongal festival.
Marking the official launch of the scheme, the state govt. has distributed free sarees and dhotis to 5 beneficiary families. The state govt. is going to distribute the Polycot Sarees to poor women.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Free Dhoti & Free Saree Scheme 2019 for Thai Pongal
The important features and highlights of this free dhoti and free saree scheme are as follows:-

AIADMK Founder MG Ramachandran introduced the Free Dhoti and Saree Scheme in 1983.
This primary objective of this scheme is to help the poor and economically weaker sections of the society.
For Thai Pongal festival 2019, govt. will provide free dhoti and free saree to around 1.56 crore poor beneficiaries in the state.
The state govt. will distribute freebies to beneficiary families at a cost of Rs. 484.25 crore.
The distribution would be carried out by the respective Public Distribution System (PDS) outlets.
TN Free Dhoti & Free Saree Scheme will serve 2 purposes simultaneously. Firstly, this scheme would benefit the poor people and on the other hand will benefit weavers & would enable them to earn income & support their livelihood as the govt. always procure such dhotis and sarees from the handloom weavers.
Moreover, this Free Dhoti & Free Saree scheme will also provide employment opportunities to the poor people in the textile and handloom industry.

New buildings & Classrooms Inaugurated – Along with the distribution of freebies, CM has also inaugurated additional classrooms, laboratories and other buildings of a government college at Ariyalur which is built at a total cost of Rs 4.23 crore through video-conferencing. Additional govt. college and university buildings constructed at a cost of Rs. 21.55 crore were inaugurated in Coimbatore, Karur, Dharmapuri, Tiruvanamalai, Chennai, Kanchipuram, Namakkal, Madurai, Cuddalore and Tirupur districts.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Now a days as the infrastructure is developing, the total percentage of admission of students has been raised to 48.6%. For infrastructure development of govt. arts colleges & universities, CM inaugurated 15 classrooms, 1 English research laboratory, 4 galleries and rest rooms at a cost of Rs. 4.23 crore at Ariyalur govt. arts college.
CM also inaugurated various additional buildings like human genetic centers and biological labs at Bharathiar university, Coimbatore. In addition to this, 9 golden jubilee classrooms opened at Karur govt. arts college at a cost of Rs. 1.5 crore. Around 10 classrooms were opened at Kaarimangalam Girls Arts and Science College, Dharmapuri district at a cost of Rs. 1.65 crore. Another 5 classrooms and laboratory were opened at a cost of Rs. 1.37 crore in Seiyaar Aringar Anna Govt Arts College, Thiruvannaamalai district.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
