


Table of Contents

Apply Online for TNPDS New Smart Ration CardTrack the Smart Card Application StatusSmart Card Helpline
The state government of Tamilnadu is inviting online applications for the new smart cards through the official website of Tamilnadu Public Distribution System (பொது விநியோகத் திட்டம், தமிழ்நாடு) at www.tnpds.gov.in. Recently the state government launched the Smart Family Card Scheme in order to convert all the ration cards in the state with new smart ration cards.
The old ration cards will be converted automatically in to the smart ration by the government. The existing ration card holders will receive an PIN on their mobile and they can collect their smart ration card from their nearest distribution center by showing the SMS. Candidates can now edit / update tamilnadu tnpds smart ration card details (make correction) through the link – Correction in Smart Ration Card (Name / Address Change)
The candidates who already have the smart ration card, can update their details in smart card using their registered mobile number from the same website at tnpds.gov.in. Users can make corrections in name, age, address & other details of the smart card and add or remove a family member, change the head of family or even can surrender or cancel their card.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Apply Online for TNPDS New Smart Ration Card
TNPDS புதிய ஸ்மார்ட் ரேஷன் கார்டில் ஆன்லைனில் விண்ணப்பிக்கவும்
Below is the step by step procedure to apply online for TNPDS Smart Ration/Family Card in Tamilnadu.
STEP 1: Go to the official website of Tamilnadu Public Distribution System at www.tnpds.gov.in and choose the language of your preference. The website opens by default with Tamil Language.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

STEP 2: Click on “Smart Card Application” or “மின்னணு அட்டை விண்ணப்பிக்க” under the Smart card application services section in the right side as represented in the image below.
TNPDS Smart Card Online Application Link
STEP 3: After clicking on this link, an application form similar to below will open on the next page, fill all the necessary details in to it.
TNPDS Smart Card Application Form
STEP 4: After filling all the required details in the smart card application form, Add the photo of head member of the family, you can upload png, gif, jpeg, jpg files under 10 KB size.
STEP 5: Now upload the residence proof in form of png, gif, jpeg and pdf format. The size of file should be no more than 100 KB. After completing all the details, click on the “Submit” button at the bottom.
STEP 6: After submitting the application, you will be provided a reference number which will help you track the status of your application.
Track the Smart Card Application Status
If you have already applied for the smart card, you must have your reference number. Using that reference number can check the status of your smart card application by visiting the homepage of the website at tnpds.gov.in and clicking the “Smart Card Application Status” link in the right column.
Visit Official Website.
Smart Card Helpline
For any queries or doubts you can call the toll free helpline number of Public Distribution System at 1967 or 1800-425-5901.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
