
Department of Public Health, Tamil Nadu has now made registration of Pregnant Women compulsory. Subsequently, pregnant women will have to make online registration at various health centers for birth certificates of their child. They will get registered under the Reproductive and Child Health (RCH) Scheme. Accordingly, mothers will have to make online registration at picme.tn.gov.in 
For birth certificates, women have to submit 12 digit RCH ID Number which they receive from village health nurses on ante-natal registration, at the hospital where the child is born. Moreover, these women can also avail the benefits of Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy Maternity Assistance Scheme. Under this scheme, the financial assistance is now increased to Rs. 18000 (as on 13 March 2018).
Govt. will make sure that all pregnant women in the TN state are registered. Accordingly, this step is necessary to provide them appropriate care which the pregnant women needs. Moreover, this move will lead to reduction in Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) and Maternal Mortality Rate (MMR) in TN. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Pregnant Women Registration in Tamil Nadu
Department of Public Health is the sole body for Registration of Pregnant Women under RCH Scheme. Accordingly, various government hospitals, primary health centers and health sub-centers provides ante-natal care in case of a new born baby. Moreover, Village Health Nurses (VHN) carry out this work in the rural areas while the Urban health Nurses (UHN) carry out this task in urban areas.
In addition to this, they make registration of the pregnant ladies and also monitor several expectant mothers. For this, these hospitals and nurses observes the details of ante-natal care being given to them. Afterwards, VHNs uploads the documents of the pregnant ladies on the Pregnant and Infant Cohort Monitoring and Evaluation (PICME) software to obtain a 12 digit number – RCH ID. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Moreover, candidates can also get this RCH ID at PHCs, Urban PHCs and other govt. hospitals through online registration at PICME. In addition to this, candidates can obtain this RCH ID from Common Service Centers (CSCs) in rural & urban areas or by calling Helpline Number 102. 
Now Pre-registration facility is also available for pregnant women on the official website picme.tn.gov.in to get their RCH ID. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
