
The state government of Tamil Nadu is planning to construct 70000 new houses for Urban homeless poor and families from weaker sections in Tiruchi within next 5 years under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana – Urban. 
All projects regarding hosing scheme will be operated and overlooked by the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB). Currently, TNSCB is building about 384 apartments at Vannarapettai with a cost of Rs. 32.31 crore for people from economically weaker sections.
As per the notification, the cost of each apartment will be of Rs. 6.50 lakh and beneficiaries are required contribute Rs. 2.50 lakh in total out of which bank will provide up to Rs. 2 lakh as loan thus beneficiary need to contribute only Rs. 50,000 by themselves. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

PMAY Housing Scheme in TamilNadu
According to the notification, government will provide homes after completing the process of assessment which would be conducted by a demand survey. The demand of houses will be fulfilled by 2022 as per the guidelines and target of PM Awas Yojana. State government will also provide subsidy to the beneficiaries to buy a an eco – friendly house for their family.
Government will provide a flat with a plinth area of 402.96 square feet to each beneficiary. The apartments will be designed and constructed with all basic residential amenities. The houses will be built within 18 months. Moreover, TNSCB has completed the construction work of 685 apartments at a cost of Rs. 46.35 crore at Peechankulam in the city which are ready to be handed over to the beneficiaries.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The old apartments will be replaced with new apartments which were built in 1962-63 by the Tamil Nadu Housing Board because these department have suffered a lot of damages. Another construction work of 512 more apartments in G+3 blocks at Nagamangalam MGR Nagar has almost completed.
Furthermore, about 160 old houses built at Duraisamypuram in 1996 by the TNSCB were demolished. The government has sanctioned Rs. 10.32 crore to construct new houses in replacement of these. All the basic amenities are being provided in all the apartments.
The Work of construction of 64 apartments with a cost of Rs. 8.05 crore is all set to begin soon at Jailpettai. The construction of 528 apartments with a cost of Rs. 38.58 crore at Irungalur has been sanctioned by the government. In addition, About 101 houses in Manapparai municipal and 172 in Thuvakudi and 66 in Thuraiyur are under progress by TNSCB.
Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY)
PMAY is a centrally sponsored housing scheme which was launched by central government to provide housing to each and every poor in the country by the year 2022. Under this scheme, government is providing subsidy to economically weaker section (EWS) for the purchase of house for their family.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
