
Manipur govt. has launched CM Scholarship Scheme 2019-20 for civil service aspirants on 8 March. Chief Minister N Biren Singh mentioned that many students comes from weak economic background and are deprived of education facilities. So, now all the candidates who aspires to build a career in civil services will get assistance to bear high costs of attending coaching classes and living in big cities. 
The total outlay for the implementation of Chief Minister Scholarship Scheme in Manipur is Rs. 1 crore. The scholarship scheme for civil service aspirants has been conceptualized in order to provide much needed support to those deserving and meritorious students.
The state govt. has partnered with the Delhi based Alternative Learning System – IAS Institute (ALS-IAS) for this initiative.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Manipur CM Scholarship Scheme 2019-2020
The important features and highlights of the CM Scholarship Scheme in Manipur are as follows:-

Manipur CM N Biren Singh launched Chief Minister Scholarship Scheme for civil service aspirants on 8th March 2019.
Under this scheme, at-least 150 civil service aspirants would be provided with 100% scholarship.
CM Scholarship Scheme will also include various forms of financial assistance for other 300 civil service aspirants. Out of these 300 aspirants, 50 aspirants will get 75% scholarship, 50 aspirants will get 60% scholarship, 100 aspirants will get 50% scholarship and the remaining 100 aspirants will get 40% scholarship.
The 300 beneficiaries would be selected on the basis of their performance in the test which is to be conducted on 19 May 2019. This test would be conducted by the ALS-IAS Institute along with the State Higher Education Department and the district administration.
With one year course fees of Rs. 70,800 per student, the total amount earmarked by the Manipur govt. has been pegged at Rs. 1.06 crore. This amount would be matched with Rs. 1.11 crore which is to be borne by the Delhi based ALS-IAS Institute as its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programme.

In total, the 450 selected aspirants will get coaching at authorised centres of ALS-IAS institutes located at 7 district headquarters namely Imphal, Churachandpur, Ukhrul, Senapati, Tamenglong, Maram and Motbung in the state. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

ALS-IAS institute uses modern satellite technology where the same class given by Delhi is telecast live at all the centers of the state with facilities for 2 way communication. 

Civil Services Coaching Scholarship Scheme launced today at my office.The Scholarship Scheme has been launched by the State Government in collaboration with ALS Satellite Education, worth over 1 crore under Chief Minister's Scholarship Scheme for Civil Services aspirants. pic.twitter.com/sehnrV8mrx
— Nongthombam Biren (@NBirenSingh) March 7, 2019

Application forms for the exam to remain available at both the DC offices and ALS-IAS authorized learning centers from 1 April 2019 to 12 May 2019. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
