
The state government of Manipur has launched “Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana” or “SAUBHAGYA” to provide electricity for all the households in rural and urban areas. This scheme was launched by the Union Minister of State (IC) for Power and New & Renewable Energy. The government is expecting to cover approximately 1.75 lakh households in Manipur under the scheme.
Under SAUBHAGYA scheme, the government will provide power connection to every household at the doorstep. A total 1.75 lakh household, out of which 1.62 lakh rural households and 0.13 lakh urban households will get the benefit of the scheme. The main objective of this scheme is to provide last mile power connection which covers all rural and urban households across the nation. 
SAUBHAGYA Scheme
The benefit of this scheme is especially for the poor household under which they can easily buy the electricity for their homes. The government has promised that every household will get 24×7 power supply by March 2019. For this, the government has already given instruction to private companies to provide 24×7 power supply to each household. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Moreover, the central government has assured that they will provide expected financial assistance for procuring of transformers, meters etc. to strengthen the power sector in Manipur. This scheme is being implemented by the Rural Electrification Corporation Limited (REC), Under the Ministry of Power. The beneficiary of the scheme will be identified using Socio Economic and Caste Census (SECC), 2011 data. 
Recently, the central government launched Saubhagya portal to check the working progress of electrification of households in the country. The citizen can make their registration on the portal to pay the electricity bills and get the information regarding reducing power losses. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

On the Saubhagya portal, the candidate will get the relevant information regarding electrification areas-wise. The government will provide electrical connections to the 4 crore un-electrified households by 2018 Under Saubhagya scheme.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
