


Table of Contents

Chief Ministergi Shotharabasingi Tengbang (CMST) Sub-Scheme DetailsChief Ministergi Shotharabasingi Tengbang BeneficiariesRelated Content
The Social Welfare Department of Manipur has launched Chief Ministergi Shotharabasingi Tengbang (CMST) for the Persons with disabilities (PWDs). The primary purpose of this scheme is to raise the living standards of the differently abled persons and to ensure their inclusive development. Subsequently this scheme is for the empowerment of Person’s with disabilities and economically weaker sections of the society. 
CMST will allow the disabled persons to mark their contribution in creating the socio-economic wealth. Accordingly, they can contribute in the overall welfare of Manipur. These scheme is basically a composition of 5 sub-schemes – Care Giver Allowance (Monetary Support), Students Scholarship, Free Travel Card in MST, Soft loan and Maintenance grant.
Chief Ministergi Shotharabasingi Tengbang (CMST) Sub-Scheme Details
The important features and highlights of the 5 sub-schemes are as follows:-



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Care Giver Allowance (Monetary Support) –

All the Differently Abled persons with more than 80% disability in the state will get Rs 1500 p.m
In addition to this, the state govt. will provide them an insurance coverage under Swavalamban Health Insurance Scheme for PwD. The differently abled persons will get a mandatory contribution of Rs 366 per annum.
Henceforth, 4 members of the family of PWDs will get an insurance coverage of up to Rs 2 lakh along with the OPD charges.


Students Scholarship Scheme – CMST will provide scholarships to the PWDs at a specified rate given below :-


Class
Amount per annum


I – V
Rs 3000


VI – VIII
Rs 4000


IX – XII
Rs 6000


Graduate and above
Rs 8000



Free Travel Card in MST – CMST is going to provide free travel facility and concession for the Persons with disabilities (PWDs) to travel in the Manipur State Transport (MST).
Grant for Maintenance – The state govt. is also going to provide a maintenance grant and support amount of Rs 1000 per month to the homeless older people. Subsequently, all the senior citizens above 60 years of age (homeless or living in old age homes) can take benefits.
Soft Loans – All the differently abled persons in the age group of 19-59 yrs of age who are able to work will get soft loans. Manipur Society for Sill Development (MSSD) will give these loans for generation of employment opportunities
Chief Ministergi Shotharabasingi Tengbang Beneficiaries
These sub-schemes will give benefits to the following number of beneficiaries:- 


Sub-Scheme
Number of Beneficiaries


Care-Giver Allowance
900


Student Scholarship Scheme
140


MST Free Travel Card
700


Maintenance Grant
286


Soft Loan
5


Chief minister of Manipur has launched Chief Ministergi Shotharabasingi Tengbang (CMST) scheme on the event of International Day for Person’s with disabilities held at Indoor Stadium, Lampak, Imphal. While launching this scheme, CM also provides allowances and scholarships to differently abled persons.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Related Content
— Moreover, candidates can also see the Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) Scheme for Ranking of States launched by the Central Governement.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
