
Manipur government has launched Chief Minister-gi Hakshelgi Tengbang (CMHT) for Poor. Subsequently, this is a Health Assurance Scheme for the welfare of poor and disabled people. Accordingly, CMHT will provide cashless treatment to the needy ones at various govt. hospitals, health centers and empanelled private hospitals. 
Under this scheme, each eligible family from Socio Economic Caste Census – SECC-2011 data will get health coverage of up to Rs. 2 lakh. Henceforth, this insurance is applicable for 7 critical diseases namely cardiovascular diseases, kidney ailments, neurological disorders, liver diseases, cancer, burns and neo-natal disorders.
To avail the benefits of this scheme, people can make their registration with the help of Asha Workers at several booths in PHCs, CHCs and other district hospitals. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Manipur Chief Minister-gi Hakshelgi Tengbang (CMHT)
CMHT is a special scheme of the state govt. to provide free treatment to the poor and disabled people at nearby govt. and private hospitals. The primary objective of this scheme is to reduce the mortality rate / number of people dying due to un-affordable hospital facilities. 
All the families whose name appears in the SECC-2011 data can avail the benefits of this scheme. Accordingly, such families will get an health assurance of Rs. 2 lakh for the treatment of 7 identified critical diseases. Beneficiaries can make enrollment at several stalls at PHCs, CHCs located nearby.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Most Importantly, this scheme is in convergence with the PM Jan Aaushadhi Scheme and Free Diagnostic Scheme. Moreover, this scheme is an IT platform based Scheme. Now, Manipur State has launched 2 Social Security Schemes with previously launched Chief Minister-gi Shotharabasingi Tengbang (CMST) Scheme for disabled people. 
The primary objective of this scheme is to make access of poverty stricken people to hospitals easy. All the poor, deprived and under-privileged people will get benefited from this scheme. 
At the official launch ceremony at the Statehood Day, CM also provides 10 life ambulances for the people. These ambulances are equipped with advance equipment and will function as Mobile ICUs in case of any emergency. Furthermore, CM also distributed Health Cards to few selected beneficiaries to mark the official launch of Chief Minister-gi Hakshelgi Tengbang scheme.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
