


Table of Contents

Startup Manipur Online Application FormStartup Manipur Eligibility & FundingIncentives to Startups in Manipur
Manipur CM has launched 2 new schemes – Startup Manipur and Lairik Tamhanlasi. Subsequently, this startup scheme will provide funds for women startups, student startups, idea based startups and revenue based startups. Accordingly, interested candidates can apply for funds online through the official website standupmanipur.in
The state govt. will provide incentives for ideas, prototype development and promotion & commercialization. Moreover to boost entrepreneurship, govt. will organize other events like Spark Saturday, Uplift and Start-up Manipur. Candidates must check their eligibility before applying.
In addition to this, govt. will also setup Network of Entrepreneurship Development Centers (NEDC), Business Incubators, Product / Prototype development and Market. Interested candidates can apply online before 25 March 2018.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Startup Manipur Online Application Form
Below is the complete procedure to apply online for Startup Manipur Scheme:- 

Firstly visit the official website startupmanipur.in
Then on the homepage, click the “Apply Now” tab or directly click this link
Accordingly, Start-up Manipur Application Form will appear as shown below:-
Startup Manipur Application Form
Here candidates have to fill personal details, business details, Progress and Pitch.
Finally candidates can click the “Submit” button to complete the application process.

This scheme will create a Startup ecosystem in the state and will provide right resources and platform.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Startup Manipur Eligibility & Funding
The candidates must be a resident of Manipur. This Start-up scheme will provide funds on the basis of following categories:-

Student Startup –

Eligibility – Students pursuing any Graduate / Post-Graduate / Degree / Master courses are eligible.
Benefit –

Mentorship Programs for Students on weekend.
Seed Funding and other support services.


Funding – For student startups, govt. will provide subsidy upto 25% of the total cost (max. Rs. 5 Lakh)


Women Startup –

Eligibility – Any women having a new startup can apply online.
Benefit –

Mentorship, Incubation and Legal Support.
They will also get financial support.


Funding – For women startups, govt. will provide subsidy of 25% of total project cost (max. Rs. 10 Lakh)


Idea Stage Startup –

Eligibility – Any person having an innovative and scalable business idea but requires financial assistance to convert it into a profitable business.
Benefit –

Mentorship, Incubation and Legal Support.
Persons with innovative ideas will get financial support from govt..


Funding – For Idea Stage Startup, govt. will give subsidy of 25% of total project cost (max. Rs. 20 Lakh)


Revenue Stage Startup –

Eligibility – Existing entrepreneurs who already possess any innovative product / service which generates revenue and requires funding for scaling up of business.
Benefit –

Mentorship, Incubation and Legal Support.
They will also get financial support.


Funding – For Revenue Stage Startup, govt. will provide funding between Rs. 20 lakh to 3 crore as per the report of Lending Bank and Investor Network.



Incentives to Startups in Manipur
Govt. will also provide various incentives to the startups whether it is student based, women based, idea based or revenue based. Incentives will be given for Ideation, Product Development, Product promotion and commercialization purposes. This is shown in the figure below:-
Startup Manipur Incentives
Candidates can also see the information about Startup Environment Creation Components like NEDC, Business Incubators, Product Development, Market through the official website. Moreover for events of promotion and selection criteria please visit the official website startupmanipur.in





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
