
The state government of Himachal Pradesh has announced to build about 12000 houses under the Mukhya Mantri Awas Yojana within the current financial year. The scheme has been started to provide financial assistance for houses to the poor belonging to general category in the state.
Two more schemes named “Indira Awas Yojana” which was recently re-named to Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana Gramin and Atal Awas Yojana are already running in the state to provide homes to under-privileged families. The state government has set a target to build 1923 affordable homes under the Mukhya Mantri Awas Yojana alone within the current financial year. The government has also increased the financial assistance amount under Atal & Indira Awas Yojana from Rs. 48,500 to Rs. 75,000.
Mukhya Mantri Awas Yojana for BPL Families
The state government is providing a financial assistance of rupees 75,000 under Mukhya Mantri Awas Yojana. Under this scheme the government would financially help 1923 BPL (Below Poverty Line) families belonging to the general category for construction of houses. A budget of rupees 25 crore has been earmarked by HP government for the implementation of Mukhya Mantri Awas Yojana.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The state government has already built 13808 houses under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana Gramin with a budget of rupees 108.37 crore. 3363 houses were constructed under Rajiv Awas Yojana with a budget of Rupees 33 crore. Another 1515 houses are also being constructed in the current financial year.
13 Cities of the state have been selected under the first phase of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana including Shimla, Solan, Nahan, Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Una, Mandi, Kullu, Dharamshala, Chamba, Parwanu, Baddi and Nalagarh. Remaining 41 cities will be selected under the second phase of the scheme.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

In order to ensure economic and social security for the poor families belonging to general category, the state government would be providing financial assistance to construct home under the Mukhya Mantri Awas Yojana. The financial assistance under the scheme would be provided under National Livelihood Mission of Central Government.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
