
हिमाचल प्रदेश मुख्यमंत्री सेवा संकल्प हेल्पलाइन नंबर सुविधा की शुरुआत की गयी, अब आम आदमी अपनी समस्याओं को फोन के जरिये टोल फ्री नंबर 1100 पर कॉल करके मुख्यमंत्री तक पहुंचा पाएंगेHimachal Pradesh government has started a new Mukhyamantri Seva Sankalp Helpline Number 1100 for public grievance addressal in the state. On this Chief Minister Seva Sankalp Helpline No, people can easily place call from their mobile phones and tell their problems to CMO. On dialling 1100, the officials will properly respond & provide resolution of the problem. A follow up call would also be made from the call center to people to get their feedback. 
The state govt. of Himachal Pradesh has released a 4 digit toll free (Dial 1100) for CM Seva Sankalp Helpline Number. At one time, this newly launched helpline number would be able to attend specific number calls of people to address their difficulties. Previously, suggestions were invited for better name of Himachal CM Helpline at [email protected]
CM Jairam Thakur has made an official tweet on his official twitter handler and given this information about CM Seva Sankalp toll free number. This helpline number facility (suvidha) is now functional.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

HP Mukhyamantri Seva Sankalp Helpline Number (1100)
Firstly, any person who is facing any difficulty in work related to any state department can call at 1100. This is a toll free Him Seva Helpline of the HP state govt. to contact CM office directly. On receiving the call at the call center setup by the Himachal Pradesh government, an official attending the call placed at Mukhyamantri Seva Sankalp Helpline number will note down the problem.
Then the official entry of problem would be feed inside the computer data. The problem would then be transferred to the concerned officials for taking action at the earliest. This action must be taken in a time bound manner so that the grievance could be resolved.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

After taking suitable action on the problem, complainant will get progress information at their handsets. CM Jairam Thakur will also review the functioning of CM Seva Sankalp Helpline No. every month. In the new call center, various officials will remain present to address grievances of people.

मेरा संकल्प जनता की प्रत्येक समस्या का समाधान करना है।
आज हमने हिमाचल में ‘‘मुख्यमंत्री सेवा संकल्प हेल्पलाइन’’ का शुभारंभ किया।
अब मेरे प्रदेशवासी हेल्पलाइन के टोल फ्री नंबर 1100 पर शिकायत दर्ज करवा सकेंगे।आपकी समस्या का समाधान त्वरित किया जाएगा।#मुख्यमंत्रीसेवासंकल्प pic.twitter.com/vb7Fauuvhz
— Jairam Thakur (@jairamthakurbjp) September 16, 2019
 
Need For CM Seva Sankalp Helpline Number in Himachal Pradesh
As all the people in Himachal Pradesh are not able to place their complaints online, so HP govt. has started CM Seva Sankalp Helpline Number. In this Mukhyamantri help toll free no., people can directly contact the CM Office. Currently, only the complaints send through e-mail & e-samadhaan are addressed. This is a major move of HP govt. as people who are illiterate or less efficient can now take benefits of this CM Seva Sankalp toll free number.
The main commitment is to ensure good governance where problems of all citizens are heard in an unbiased manner. In addition to this, citizens can send their suggestions for better functioning of elected govt. at new e-mail ID at [email protected]





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://twitter.com/CMOFFICEHP
SAVE AS PDF
