
Himachal Pradesh govt. has launched Mother’s Absolute Affection Scheme for pregnant and lactating mothers. Mother’s Milk in the first hour of birth and exclusive breastfeeding for first 6 months thereafter is very important for children well being. MAA Programme 2018 under National Health Mission will create awareness in the general public and this breastfeeding programme will also reduce under 5 mortality rate of children.
Breastfeeding is a natural, low cost and important intervention and every child must have access to it. MAA Programme targets at pregnant and lactating mothers through trained healthcare providers and skilled community health workers. 
As per the reports data, around 13% of children death occurs due to poor breastfeeding. MAA programme will create a suitable eco-system to provide proper info. to mothers, husbands and other family members.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Components of MAA Programme 2018
The important component of Mother’s Absolute Affection Programme in Himachal Pradesh are as follows:-

Community awareness generation.
Strengthening inter personal communication through ASHA.
Skilled support for breastfeeding at delivery points in public health facilities.
Monitoring and Award/recognition.
Maa Programme PDF Components

Breastfeeding is helpful in creation of special bond between baby and mother. Mother’s milk also improves behaviour, speech, security and how child relates to other people. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

MAA Programme 2018 in HP – National Health Mission
All the national health indicators like Infant Mortality Rate (IMR), Maternal Maternity Rate (MMR), Total Fertility Rate (TFR) and under five mortality rate shows decline in the previous years. Health Ministry ‘Strategic approach to Reproductive Maternal, Newborn, Child and Adolescent health (RMNCH+A) is focusing on all life stages. Breastfeeding prevents children from disease, poverty and death and will bring physical and social development.
Husband and other family members must support women for breastfeeding which will provide essential nutrients to child. MAA Programme 2018 will focus on efforts to promote, protect and support optimal breastfeeding and will also provide counselling on child feeding through health systems. As per official data, early breastfeeding will prevent 20% newborn deaths and 13% under 5 children deaths. 
This sensitization programme involves allopathic, doctors, Ayush Doctors, Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANMs), Anganwadi Workers (AWs) to implement proper breastfeeding. Candidates can see more details on Mother’s Absolute Affection Scheme through the link – MAA Programme PDF 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
