
Himachal Pradesh government has approved to implement Sashakt Mahila Yojana in the cabinet meeting held on 20 November 2018 which was presided over by the CM Jai Ram Thakur. This scheme has been launched to empower rural women and to provide them an interface for organisation and socio-economic development. The cabinet committee has taken various other social welfare measures to benefit every section of the society.
Under Sashakt Mahila Yojana, the state govt. will appoint 1 women development officer and fill 2 posts of district coordinator. HP state cabinet has also approved the opening of a government pharmacy college in Seraj area of Mandi district.
In addition to this, the state govt. gave its permission to create Sub Tehsil at Mandap in Mandi district. This would have total 9 patwar circles for the population of 12440.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

HP Sashakt Mahila Yojana for Rural Women
Sashakt Mahila scheme not only ensure to link rural women with sustainable livelihood opportunities but also to improve their skills by imparting suitable training. Cabinet committee has also decided to open a police post at Yashwant Nagar under Police Station Rajgarh in Sirmaur district. The state govt. will also create 7 posts of various categories to benefit 48 villages of the area. HP govt. will open police post at Shoghi under Boileauganj Police Station in Shimla district. 
The state govt. has approved to fill up 54 posts of Junior Office Assistant (IT) on contract basis in Women and Child Development Directorate, Himachal Pradesh. HP govt. has approved filling up of 3 creche workers and 15 posts of creche helpers by HP state council for child welfare under National Creche Scheme in different districts.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

HP cabinet also approved creation and filling up ten posts of Junior Office Assistant (IT) on contract basis in Industries Department. 

मंत्रिमंडल की बैठक में जनता की मांगों के मद्देनजर महत्वपूर्ण निर्णय लिए। इसके तहत विभिन्न योजनाओं को शुरू किया जाएगा, विभिन्न संस्थान स्थापित किए जाएंगे ।#कैबिनेटबैठक#शिखरकीओरहिमाचल pic.twitter.com/IXvSoPUeAm
— CMO HIMACHAL (@CMOFFICEHP) November 20, 2018

Cabinet committee has agreed to open Ayurvedic health centre at village Sain in Bharata Gram Panchayat of Thural tehsil in Kangra district. In addition, the govt. will create requisite posts to run this centre. Around 84 posts of warden in H.P prisons and correctional services deparment will be filled on contract basis. The state govt. has approved to fill up 10 posts of class III and class IV of different categories in HP Technical University, Hamirpur. HP cabinet committee has also approved the amendment to Section 35 of the HP Town and Country Planning Rules, 2014. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
