


Table of Contents

HP Medha Protsahan Yojana 2019-2020 Online Application / RegistrationHP Medha Protsahan Yojana 2019-2020 EligibilityHimachal Pradesh Medha Protsahan Yojana 2019-20
Himachal Pradesh government has launched HP Medha Protsahan Yojana 2019-2020 to provide assistance upto Rs. 1 lakh to meritorious students for coaching purpose. Students can fill HP Medha Protsahan Yojana online application form at educationhp.org. Students would be able to prepare for entrance examinations like civil services exams which would further generate employment opportunities. The last date to apply online for Medha Protsahan Yojna is 15 January 2020. 
HP Medha Protsahan Yojana will ensure that the meritorious students does not find any difficulty in preparation of exams and in building their career due to shortage of money. Guidance will be provided to all students through expert faculty at coaching centers located within or outside the state. For the current FY 2019-2020, the state govt. has allocated a budget of Rs. 5 crore.
The state govt. is focused on providing assistance for coaching to poor meritorious students so that each student gets admission in reputed higher educational institutions across the country. This scheme will serve as a boon to all the students belonging to poor and economically weaker sections. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

HP Medha Protsahan Yojana 2019-2020 Online Application / Registration
Himachal Pradesh Higher Education Department has invited applications from meritorious students preparing for competitive exams under Medha Protsahan scheme. These applications have been invited from candidates taking coaching from institutions identified by Higher Education Department within the state or other states preparing for CLAT/ NEET/ IIT/ AIIMS/ AFMC/ NDA etc. and UPSC/ SSC/ Banking and Insurance, Railways etc. entrance exam. The HP Medha Protsahan Yojana Application Form is present in the pdf file which can be downloaded through the link below:- 

http://educationhp.org/Files/MEDHA%20PROTSAHAN%20YOJNA.PDF09_05_2019_01_12_59.PDF
HP Medha Protsahan Yojana Apply Online Form 2020 will appear as shown below:-
HP Medha Protsahan Yojana Apply Online Form

Previous deadline to fill Medha Protsahan Yojana apply online form was 25 Dec 2019 which is extended to 15 January 2020. The candidates can send their application to office of Director, Higher Education, Himachal Pradesh, Shimla- 171001 or through email [email protected] before last date. The complete detail of the scheme is available on website www.educationhp.org of Director Higher Education Himachal Pradesh.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

HP Medha Protsahan Yojana 2019-2020 Eligibility
All the candidates who wants to apply online for HO Medha Protsahan Yojana must fulfill the eligibility criteria as given below:-	

The candidate applying under Medha Protsahan Yojana should be a bonafide Himachali.
The total family income of the candidate should be less than 2.50 lakh per annum and should not be double than below poverty line income.

Under this scheme the selected candidates would be provided with maximum financial assistance of rupees one lakh only once in life time. The candidates can utilize this financial assistance for institution fees, books etc. while preparing for competitive exams.
Himachal Pradesh Medha Protsahan Yojana 2019-20
The important features and highlights of HP Medha Protsahan Yojana are as follows:-

HP govt. will provide financial assistance upto Rs. 1 lakh to meritorious students for coaching to secure excellent marks in competitive examinations.
All the 12th class students needs proper guidance to perform well in the entrance examinations. So, govt. will assist them in getting coaching in the state or outside the state. Moreover, assistance would be provided to the college students to get coaching for job related examinations.
The assistance amount would be given for all the competitive exams conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) and Staff Selection Commission (SSC).
Students can apply for coaching to prepare for CLAT, IIT-JEE, AIIMS, AFMC, NEET like competitive examinations.
The total family income of the meritorious students from all sources must not exceed Rs. 2.5 lakh per annum.

हिमाचल मंत्रीमण्डल ने प्रदेश के भविष्य के लिए "मेधा प्रोत्साहन योजना" शुरू की है। गरीब परिवार से संबंध रखने वाले विद्यार्थियों के लिए वरदान साबित होगी यह योजना।#शिखरकीओरहिमाचल pic.twitter.com/ofZJXR8wlI
— Jairam Thakur (@jairamthakurbjp) October 23, 2018


The state govt. of Himachal Pradesh has made a budgetary provision of Rs. 5 crore for coaching assistance under the Medha Protsahan Yojana for which announcement was made in the HP Budget 2019-20.
All the students will get coaching assistance upto Rs. 1 lakh for competitive examinations and they can avail coaching either inside or outside the state.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
