
Himachal Pradesh govt. has launched Universal Health Protection Scheme to provide free treatment upto Rs. 5 lakh to all the citizens. CM Jai Ram Thakur launches the Ayushman Bharat – PM Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) in Himachal Pradesh to provide assistance for secondary and tertiary hospitalization without any restriction of age, family size and income. Interested candidates can visit the official website at https://hpuhps.com/
HP Chief Minister has also started 3 other schemes namely Mukhyamantri Chikitsa Raahat Kosh Yojana, Mukhya Mantri Rajya Swasthya Dekhbhal Yojana and Telemedicine scheme for Pangi in Chamba district on 20 October 2018. 
Latest Update – Check Ayushman Bharat Yojana List of Hospitals to find PM Jan Arogya Yojana empanelled hospitals.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

At the launch event, CM has also inaugurated OPD / IPD, Trauma Centre of Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri government medical college, Ner Chowk, and Nursing College at Ner Chowk in Mandi district.
Himachal Pradesh Universal Health Protection Scheme
Ayushman Bharat – PM Jan Arogya Yojana is a flagship scheme of the Modi govt. to provide health insurance coverage of Rs. 5 lakh to people from deprived sections. All those people whose name appears in the SECC 2011 list will get free insurance coverage of Rs. 5 lakh for secondary and tertiary hospitalization. Interested candidates can apply online at https://hpuhps.com/ for Universal Health Protection scheme. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

People can check their name in the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana final beneficiaries list and avail free treatment at 175 registered govt. and private empanelled hospitals in the state. This scheme is to ensure the vision of “Health for All” in the state. PMJAY scheme will be implemented in Himachal Pradesh in trust based mode and there is no enrollment required to avail the scheme benefits.
Universal Health Protection Scheme will subsume the Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana (RSBY) in the state. Moreover, all those citizens who are not covered under this scheme will get included in the Mukhyamantri Swasthya Dekhbhal Yojana in which they will get an increased assistance upto Rs. 5 lakh (previously Rs. 30,000). 

मेडिकल कॉलेज नेरचौक में टेलीमेडिसिन सेंटर्स,"मुख्यमंत्री चिकित्सा राहत कोष" योजना और यूनिवर्सल हेल्थ प्रोटेक्शन योजना के शुभारंभ के पश्चात यहाँ भारी जनसमूह को सम्बोधित किया ।स्थानीय जनता को हार्दिक बधाई ।#शिखरकीओरहिमाचल pic.twitter.com/SiwlMcuBzo
— Jairam Thakur (@jairamthakurbjp) October 20, 2018

The state govt. has also launched Mukhyamantri Chikitsa Rahat Kosh Yojana to provide financial assistance to the citizens who are not covered under the social security pension scheme and people will get specialised medical and emergency services round the clock. 
CM Jai Ram Thakur has also announced to open Atal Medical and Research University in Ner Chowk medical college. The state govt. will enhance the monthly pay of medical officers appointed on contract basis by Rs. 10,000 per month and that of specialist medical officers on contract basis by Rs. 15,000 per month.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
