


Table of Contents

HP Mukhyamantri Yuva Swavalamban Yojana 2020Himachal Pradesh Grahini Suvidha YojanaHimachal Pradesh Budget 2018-19 – List of Schemes
Himachal Pradesh government has decided to expand the coverage of HP Mukhyamantri Yuva Swavalamban Yojana 2020. In this MYSY scheme, govt. will promote self-employment opportunities for the youth and will encourage entrepreneurship. The state govt. has notified disbursal of subsidy under CM Yuva Swavalamban Scheme through nodal banks instead of treasury.
The state govt. in its cabinet meeting has approved the expansion of MYSY scheme which was firstly announced earlier in the Himachal Pradesh Budget 2018-19. For Yuva Swavalamban Yojana in HP, govt. will invite online registrations on the official website at https://www.emerginghimachal.hp.gov.in/.
The description of both CM Youth Self Dependent Scheme is given in this post. Moreover, the registration process is going to open soon. As soon the online registration begins, we will update it here.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

HP Mukhyamantri Yuva Swavalamban Yojana 2020
The important features and highlights of this CM Yuva Swavalamban Yojana 2020 are as follows:-
All the unemployed youths between the age group of 18 to 35 years are eligible under this scheme.Jobless Youths will get subsidy of 25% on machinery on making investment of Rs. 40 lakhs in the industry for their livelihood.Jobless women will get subsidy of 30% on machinery on making investment of Rs. 40 lakhs in the industry for their livelihood.On Loans upto Rs. 40 lakhs, govt. will provide an interest subsidy of 5% for 3 years.Govt. will give its land to the youths on rent at just 1% rate.The govt. will reduce the stamp duty from 6% to 3% on the purchase of land.
This scheme will ensure that adequate self employment opportunities are created in the state to reduce the unemployment problem. Moreover, each youth will be self sufficient and will become a job creater rather than a jobseeker. The state govt. has made a provision of Rs. 80 crore for the successful implementation of this scheme.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Himachal Pradesh Grahini Suvidha Yojana
The important features and highlights of this scheme are as follows:-
HP govt. will provide security amount to get a Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) connection and a gas stove to the poor families.All those households in the state who does not possess the LPG Gas Connections and are not covered under Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) will be covered under this scheme.The primary objective of this scheme is to provide LPG Gas connection facility to all the poor families for at-least 2 years.HP govt. has made a budgetary provision of Rs. 12 crore for the implementation of this scheme.
Govt. also increases the honorarium of officials of Panchayati Raj Institutions. The honorarium for Zila Parishad chairman is increased from Rs. 8,000 to Rs. 11,000 and other members from Rs. 3,500 to Rs. 4,500 per month. Moreover, the anganwari workers will get an honorarium of Rs 4,750, anganwari workers will get Rs. 2,400 and mini anganwari workers will get Rs. 3,300 p.m.
Himachal Pradesh Budget 2018-19 – List of Schemes
Here is the complete List of Schemes as announced by the CM in Budget 2018-19:-
List of HP Welfare SchemesMukhyamantri Lok Kalyan Bhawan Yojana (मुख्यमंत्री लोक कल्याण भवन योजना)Jal Se Krishi Ko Bal Yojana (जल से कृषि को बल योजना)Solar Sinchayee Yojana (सौर सिंचाई योजना)Prakritik Kheti, Khushal Kisan (प्राकृतिक खेती, खुशहाल किसान)Bhagwani Suraksha Yojana (बागवानी सुरक्षा योजना)Himachal Pushp Kranti Yojana (हिमाचल पुष्प क्रांति योजना)Mukhyamantri Madhu Vikas Yojana (मुख्यमंत्री मधु विकास योजना)Van Samridhi, Jan Samriddhi Yojana (वन समृद्धि, जन समृद्धि योजना)Samudayik Van Samvardhan Yojana (सामुदायिक वन संवर्धन योजना)Vidyarthi Van Mitra Yojana (विद्यार्थी वन मित्र योजना)Yuva Vigyan Puraskar Yojana (युवा विज्ञान पुरस्कार योजना)New Best City Plan (नई श्रेष्ठ शहर योजना)Nayi Raahein, Nayi Manzilein (नई राहें, नई मंजिलें)Mukhyamantri Yuva Aajeevika Yojana (मुख्यमंत्री युवा आजीविका योजना)Himachal Sadak Sudhar Yojana (हिमाचल सड़क सुधार योजना)Mukhyamantri Adarsh Vidya Kendra Yojana (मुख्यमंत्री आदर्श विद्या केंद्र योजना)Akhand Shiksha Jyoti, Mere School Se Nikle Moti (अखंड शिक्षा ज्योति, मेरे स्कूल से निकले मोती)Medha Protsahan Yojana (मेधा प्रोत्साहन योजना)Aaj Purani Raaho Se (आज पुरानी राहों से)Dev Bhumi Darshan (देव भूमि दर्शन)Swasthya Mai Sahbhagita Yojana (स्वास्थ्य में सहभागिता योजना)Mukhyamantri Nirog Yojana (मुख्यमंत्री निरोग योजना)Mukhyamantri Aashirwad Yojana (मुख्यमंत्री आशीर्वाद योजना)Sashakt mahila Yojana (सशक्त महिला योजना)Gram Gaurav Patt (ग्राम गौरव पट्ट) 
HP Cabinet also approved 333 posts on contract basis for different categories in National Health Mission.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
