
Himachal Pradesh govt. has launched Mukhyamantri Alpsankhyak Kalyan Yojana 2018. Under this scheme, HP govt. will provide financial assistance for the marriage of muslim girls, medical treatment to poor muslim families and to provide social security pension to old, widows and disabled people of minority communities. This amount will be given through the Waqf Board. 
The state govt. is committed for the welfare and development of minorities sections of the society. This would enable the minority section to get equal opportunities for development purpose. 
CM Jairam Thakur has made this announcement while addressing a gathering in Chamba after the launch of HP Mukhyamantri Alpsankhyak Kalyan Yojana on 6 August 2018.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

HP Mukhyamantri Alpsankhyak Kalyan Yojana 2018
The important features and highlights of this HP CM Minority Welfare Scheme are as follows:-

Marriage Grant to Muslim Girls (Rs. 25,000) – The state govt. is going to provide Rs. 25000 as marriage assistance for the girls belonging to the poor Muslim families.
Medical Treatment to Poor Muslim Families (Rs. 5,000) – HP govt. will provide financial assistance of Rs. 5000 for medical treatment of any poor Muslim family.
Social Security Pension to Old, Widow and Disabled Muslims (Rs. 400 p.m) – The state govt. will provide Rs. 400 per month as social security pension to old, widow and disabled people from Muslim community.

Minority people plays an important role in the overall development of the society. All the financial assistance would be provided to the beneficiaries through the Waqf Board.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Age Limit For Social Security Pension Reduced
Previously, the state govt. has also reduce the age limit to avail social security scheme benefits. The cabinet committee has decided that the age limit for Social Security Pension is now 70 years (previously 80 years). This decision has benefited around 1.3 lakh Old Age citizens. 
The state govt. is going to provide necessary facilities for Muslim Graveyard – Kabristan. HP govt. will allocate land to the Waqf Board to build new burial places where Muslims can be buried after their deaths. For this purpose, deputy commissioners have been asked to find adequate spaces. Some other important announcements were also made during the launch event of Mukhyamantri Alpsankhyak Kalyan Yojana in Himachal Pradesh. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
