
Himachal Pradesh govt. has launched 4 new health schemes namely Mukhyamantri Chikitsa Raahat Kosh Yojana, Mukhya Mantri Rajya Swasthya Dekhbhal Yojana, Himachal Pradesh Universal Health Protection Scheme and Telemedicine scheme for Pangi in Chamba district. HP govt. is going to provide assistance to patients who are not included in the social security pension scheme. 
CM Jai Ram Thakur has inaugurated OPD / IPD, Trauma Centre of Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri government medical college, Ner Chowk and Nursing College at Ner Chowk in Mandi district. CM has also announced to open Atal Medical and Research University in Ner Chowk medical college. 
HP govt. is going to enhance the monthly pay of medical officers appointed on contract basis by Rs. 10,000 p.m and that of specialist medical officers on contract basis by Rs. 15,000 per month. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

HP Mukhyamantri Chikitsa Raahat Kosh Yojana
Under Mukhyamantri Chikitsa Rahat Kosh Yojana, the citizens would be able to get 24*7 specialised medical and emergency services. The state govt. will provide financial assistance to all those patients who were not covered under the social security pension scheme.

"मुख्यमंत्री चिकित्सा राहत कोष योजना" शुरू करने के साथ योजना के तहत विभिन्न लाभार्थियों को निर्धारित राशि के चेक वितरित किए।मरीज व्यक्ति के उपचार के लिए केंद्र सरकार एवं हमारी प्रदेश सरकार ने कल्याणकारी योजनाएं शुरू की हैं। जनता से आग्रह है कि इन योजनाओं का भरपूर लाभ उठाएं। pic.twitter.com/PeQOLENTOz


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

— Jairam Thakur (@jairamthakurbjp) October 20, 2018

HP govt. will also facilitate the people by enhancing the assistance amount under Mukhyamantri Swasthya Dekhbhal Yojana from Rs. 30,000 to Rs. 5 lakh. Now citizens can avail treatment under Mukhya Mantri Swasthya Dekhbhal Yojana at 175 registered government and private health institutes.
Under Himachal Pradesh Universal Health Protection Scheme, each person from economically weaker sections can avail free treatment upto Rs. 5 lakh in any govt. or private empanelled hospitals. 
HP CM has also laid the foundation stones of staff quarters of Civil hospital Sundernangar and an overhead foot bridge at Lalit chowk in Sundernagar. The state govt. will also provide digital X-Ray machines for the hospital and will enhance the bed capacity from 100 to 150 beds.
HP govt. will also spend Rs. 30 lakh for the construction of Mukhya Mantri Bhawan in Balh Constituency and upgrading Middle School Sarkidhar to High School.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
