
Himachal Pradesh govt. has launched Mukhyamantri Aashirwad Yojana to provide free baby kits to all new born babies. All the infants who takes birth in government hospitals will get these free kits for babies. The state govt. will start distributing these kits worth Rs. 1500 from December 2018.
The tender process for HP Mukhyamantri Aashirwad Yojana has been finalized and the supply order has been generated by the state government. Moreover, the state govt. is already providing Rs. 700 to the mothers during their pregnancy. This scheme is going to benefit more than 1 lakh infants every year.
This scheme would encourage women to give birth to their child in the hospitals so that the child gets mother’s milk and gets proper nourishment. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Himachal Pradesh Mukhyamantri Aashirwad Yojana
The important features and highlights of this scheme are as follows:-

All the baby kits distributed under Mukhyamantri Aashirwad Yojana will consists of 15 things necessary for newly born babies.
These 15 things includes suit, pair of vests (baniyan), velvet cloth, pair of gloves (dastane), pair of socks, massage oil, towel, 6 nappies, mosquito curtain (machardani), blanket, 1 toy. For mothers, there is toothpaste & tooth brush, bathing soap, vaseline and sanitizer.
The items in the distributed baby kits (baby care kits) will have a total cost of around Rs. 1500.
In the FY 2018-19, the state govt. has made a budgetary provision of Rs. 15 crore for this CM Ashirwad scheme. 
Around 1 lakh infants would get these baby kits every year.
Only those mothers who give birth to the children in hospitals would be eligible for this scheme. Even such mothers would also get financial assistance of Rs. 700 on the birth of new baby.

Mukhyamantri Ashirwaad scheme has been announced in the HP Budget 2018-19 and is approved by the cabinet committee last month. As per the reports from the official sources, all the technicalities have been completed to start the scheme. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Of all the schemes of Health department announced by CM in the Budget, work on around 90% of the schemes have been completed. All the new born babies who are born in the hospitals will get these kits worth Rs. 1500. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
