
Himachal Pradesh govt. has raised the financial assistance under Mukhyamantri Rajya Swasthya Dekhbhal Yojana. Now, the state govt. would provide an assistance amount of Rs. 5 lakh instead of previous Rs. 30,000. CM Jai Ram Thakur has also launched 3 other health scheme namely Mukhyamantri Chikitsa Rahat Kosh Yojana, HP Universal Health Protection Scheme and Telemedicine scheme for Pangi in Chamba district. 
HP govt. has inaugurated OPD / IPD, Trauma Centre of Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri government medical college, Ner Chowk and Nursing College at Ner Chowk in Mandi district. CM Jai Ram Thakur has also announced to open Atal Medical and Research University in Ner Chowk medical college. 
HP govt. has increased the monthly salary of contractual medical officers by Rs. 10,000 p.m and that of contractual specialist medical officers by Rs. 15,000 per month.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Mukhamantri Rajya Swasthya Dekhbhal Yojana in Himachal Pradesh
All the citizens of Himachal Pradesh will now get an enhanced assistance under Mukhyamantri Swasthya Dekhbhal Yojana through 175 registered government and private health institutes. The financial assistance has been raised from an existing provision of Rs. 30,000 to 5 lakh for treatment in all these hospitals. This scheme will cover those beneficiaries who are not covered under Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana (RSBY) and other health protection schemes. 
CM Rajya Swasthya Dekhbhal Yojana will include senior citizens above 80 years of age, single women (widow, divorced, abandoned, missing husband and unmarried), disabled persons with more than 70% disability, anganwadi workers / assistants, part-time employees, daily wage workers, contractual employees of Himachal pradesh and mid-day meal workers.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

People of the state would now get specialised medical and emergency services round the clock. The state govt. will provide financial assistance from Mukhyamantri Chikitsa Rahat Kosh to the patients who are not covered under social security pension scheme. 

मंडी प्रवास के दौरान मेडिकल कॉलेज नेरचौक में टेलीमेडिसिन सेंटर्स, बजट घोषणा के अनुरूप " मुख्यमंत्री चिकित्सा राहत कोष" योजना और यूनिवर्सल हेल्थ प्रोटेक्शन ( अतिरिक्त लाभ) योजना का शुभारंभ किया। इसके लिए प्रदेशवासियों को हार्दिक बधाई एवं शुभकामनाएं । pic.twitter.com/v8n624LSlI
— Jairam Thakur (@jairamthakurbjp) October 20, 2018

Under Himachal Pradesh Universal Health Protection Scheme, govt. will provide facility for free treatment upto Rs. 5 lakh to all the citizens. CM has also announced to provide Rs. 30 lakh for the construction of Mukhya Mantri Bhawan in Balh constitutency and to upgrade middle school Sarkidhar to high school. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
