


Table of Contents

Unemployment Allowance Scheme 2017Unemployment Allowance Scheme 2017 Application FormsEligibility for Unemployment Allowance Scheme 2017
Himachal Pradesh Government has launched “Unemployment Allowance Scheme 2017” in the state on the occasion of 70th foundation day of Himachal Pradesh. The government along with the Unemployment Allowance Scheme, the government has also decided to reduce the time period for regularization of contract based employees from earlier 5 years to 3 years.
The chief Minister of HP marked the launch of the unemployment allowance scheme by distributing the cheques of Rs. 1000 to ten beneficiaries during the event organized at Chamba. The unemployment allowance scheme was announced by the state government in 2016-17 budget speech.
Unemployment Allowance Scheme 2017
Under the scheme, the state government would provide unemployment allowance of Rs. 1000 per month to every unemployed youth who have passed at least intermediate. Rs. 1500 per month would be provided to such unemployed youth with disability. The Allowance shall be credited to the recipient by RTGS/NEFT/ECS through Banks as mentioned in Application Form, on monthly basis at the cost of the Government.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The state government has decided to launch the unemployment allowance scheme in order to financially help the youth to get skill training and get jobs. The state government is also working towards providing the skill training to such youth and generate employment for them.
Unemployment Allowance Scheme 2017 Application Forms
An educated unemployed applicant may make an application on his/her being eligible for the grant of Allowance along with documents mentioned in application form ‘A’ to that Employment Exchange in H.P., where his/her name is registered.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

A duly completed application form may be sent by post or be delivered at that Employment Exchange in H.P., where his/her name is registered.
After the initial filing of claim in the prescribed form ‘A’, every claimant to the Allowance shall be required to submit Affidavit/Self Declaration as per form’C’, in the subsequent month of March to the Employment Exchange where his/her name is registered.
Download: Application Form for Unemployment Allowance Scheme 2017
Processing of Applications
The Employment Exchange will thoroughly scrutinize applications received under Section 7 and decide with regard to the admissibility of the Allowance to the applicant, within 45 days and in case the claim is inadmissible, suitable orders shall be issued under intimation to the applicant. – as per form ‘D’
If applicant is aggrieved by any decision intimated to her/him under sub-rule (a), she/he may file an appeal to the Director whose decision thereon shall be final.
Eligibility for Unemployment Allowance Scheme 2017
An educated unemployed applicant shall be eligible for the grant of Unemployment Allowance, who fulfills the following criteria:

She/he should be unemployed (should not be employed in Govt. sector or in PSUs or in private sector or self employed) and should be a Bonafide Himachali.
She/he should have passed minimum 10+2 from any Board/University/Institution recognized by H.P. Govt.
She/he should be registered with any Employment Exchange in Himachal Pradesh as on the date of application since 1 year.
Her/his annual family income for the Financial Year immediately preceding date of application, from all sources including that of spouse should be less than Rs. 2.00 Lakh (Rs. Two Lakhs).
She/he should be above 20 years and below 35 years of age, as on the date of application.
She/he should not be self-employed.
She/he should not be a dismissed Govt. employee.
She/he should not be convicted of any offence resulting in imprisonment for a period of 48 hours or more.
She/he should not be a regular student pursuing any course.
She/he should not be availing Skill Development Allowance.

The detailed information about the Unemployment Allowance Scheme 2017 is available at the official website at below link
Detailed Information
Or you can also visit the official website of Employment Exchange of HP at http://eemis.hp.nic.in/ for more information about the scheme.
The government has already started Rs. 500 Crore skill development scheme in the state under which skill development allowance has been provided to about 1,52,000 youth. The government has also setup “Kaushal Vikas Nigam” to implement the skill development project and provide employment to about 65,000 youth by upgrading the skill infrastructure.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
