
Himachal Pradesh govt. has launched Anubhav Yojana in Kullu district on 4 September 2018. Under this scheme, all the citizens can now Book Appointment with Doctors Online even while sitting at their home. This would be done on the basis of a Token System and people can fix their timings to meet doctors easily. The main tagline of this scheme is “One Step Towards Digital Health”. 
Now after the launch of Anubhav Yojana in the district, all the people will not have to stand in queue at the hospitals. Rather they can just book appointment (parchi) for OPD online. This would save lots of time which could have been wasted if the people stand in lines at the hospitals.
In the initial phase, the state govt. has started this facility for the Kullu district only. But soon it will be launched in other districts as well. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

HP Anubhav Yojana – Book Appointment with Doctors Online
Under this scheme, people in Kullu district can avail Digital Health facilities and get appointment with doctors from their home. Under Anubhav Yojana, citizens can get e-receipt (parchi) to meet doctors by making online registrations through Asha workers or health workers of Rural health department. People can then meet the specialized doctor at the time fixed in the appointment and avail treatment for their disease.
Himachal Pradesh Anubhav Yojana Book Appointment Doctors Online
This will provide easy and timely access to proper treatment to the people and will ensure good health of the citizens. All the citizens who have made online registrations for appointment under Anubhav Yojana will also get an SMS. This SMS will be sent to confirm the appointment (date and timings) details. This scheme will benefit 4.5 lakh people in the Kullu district. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Anubhav Yojana will also assist people in case the date or timings to meet the doctor are changed. Then they will get the message (SMS) on their registered mobile number regarding the change in date or time. This scheme will enable people to take suggestions and advice from the doctors directly at their fixed timings without any delay.
It is a hassle free process and people will not have to roam here and there and make unnecessary visits at the hospitals to get treatment. CM Jai Ram Thakur has received a warm welcome from the people of Kullu district. On this occasion, Yunus (DC Kullu) and CMO Dr. Sushil Chandra along with other officers were present.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
