
हिमाचल प्रदेश राशन कार्ड ऑनलाइन आवेदन पत्र भरें himachalforms.nic.in पर या ऑफलाइन राशन कार्ड एप्लीकेशन फॉर्म PDF डाउनलोड करें food.hp.nic.in पर, आवेदन की स्तिथि की भी जांच करें

Table of Contents

Online Application for Ration Card in Himachal PradeshHP Ration Card Application Form PDF Download (Offline)Track HP Ration Card Application Status
Himachal Pradesh govt. is inviting HP Ration Card online application form at himachalforms.nic.in. People can also download HP Ration Card PDF at food.hp.nic.in. All those people whose name does not appears in the HP Ration Card List 2019 can now apply through online or offline mode. Moreover, people can also track HP Ration Card online application status at edistrict.hp.gov.in.
All the candidates can apply online for ration card in HP by filling Consumer Card fillable pdf. In addition to this, people can perform HP Ration Card Form PDF download and submit it to the concerned authorities to get their name included in the HP Ration Card Data and thus in the new Ration Card List.
Rashan Card is an essential document issued by ePDS department in Himachal Pradesh to avail benefits of most of the state sponsored government schemes. Also, people can get rashan at subsidized rates through these ration cards from fair price shops located nearby. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Online Application for Ration Card in Himachal Pradesh
All the candidates can apply online for Ration Card in Himachal Pradesh through the below mentioned process:-

Firstly visit the official website at http://himachalforms.nic.in/
At the homepage, click at the “Find Your Relevant Form” link as shown below:-
Apply for Ration Card in Himachal Pradesh
In the next page, go to the ‘Food, Civil Supplies & Consumer Affairs Department‘ section and then click at the “Application for Issuance of Consumer Card” link. Then click at the “Fillable PDF” button to open the new ration card application form Himachal Pradesh:-
Online Ration Card in Himachal Pradesh
Direct Link – e Ration Card Form HP

All the candidates must submit the filled in HP ration card application form to the Inspector, Food, Civil Supplies & Consumer Affairs / Gram Panchayat Vikas Adhikari.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

HP Ration Card Application Form PDF Download (Offline)
Candidates can also follow the offline process and download the HP ration card application form in PDF format through the process mentioned below:-

Firstly visit the official e Himapurti website at food.hp.nic.in 
At the homepage, click at the “Getting / Renewal of Ration Cards” link under ‘Citizen Services’ section.
Under Getting a Ration Card section, click at the “Download Ration Card Application Form-II” link. The direct links to download the application form for ration card in Himachal Pradesh in English in PDF format is given here – Download Application Form for Ration Card in Himachal Pradesh (English)
Himachal Pradesh Ration Card Application Form
The application for obtaining a ration card should be made to the Panchayat Secretary/Panchayat Sahayak in case of rural areas and to the Food & Supplies Officer/ Inspector, FCS&CA in case of urban areas.

Alternate Link to Download HP Ration Card Form PDF – New Ration Card Application Form Himachal Pradesh
Track HP Ration Card Application Status
All the candidates can track the HP ration card application status online through the link given below:-
HP Ration Card Application Status Online
Here people can enter their ration card application number and click at the “Search” button to get information on their application status of ration card in Himachal Pradesh.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: himachalforms.nic.in, food.hp.nic.in, edistrict.hp.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
