
Himachal Pradesh cabinet committee has taken a number of decisions on 5 November 2018 for the welfare of common people. To ensure the objective of “Healthy Himachal”, the state govt. has decided to start HP Mukhyamantri Nirog Yojana. There is no age limit and the scheme will be applicable to all the permanent citizens of the state. 
The primary objective of Mukhyamantri Nirog Yojana is to identify long term problems through check-ups and to ensure proper cure to people. Under this scheme, the state govt. will provide free medicines for proper cure of the health problems.
The announcement of this health scheme was made in the Himachal Pradesh budget 2018-19.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

HP Mukhyamantri Nirog Yojana for All Citizens
The important features and highlights of CM Nirog Yojana are as follows:-

All the citizens of the state belonging to any age group can avail the scheme benefits.
The state govt. will provide free medicines to the citizens for all types of diseases.
Mukhyamantri Nirog Yojana will primarily benefit the poor people so that they can get proper treatment on time. Health problems can be identified at the initial stage to provide proper treatment to the people.
Under this scheme, random blood tests, eye check-up, blood pressure test and other tests would be performed absolutely free of cost.
In the initial phase, the state govt. will provide 330 free medicines while 66 medicines are already available.
All the children below 8 years of age will get free injections for insulin and haemophilia.
This scheme will reduce the risk of Measles and Rubella.

The state govt. of Himachal Pradesh has launched Mukhyamantri Nirog Yojana in order to perform general health check up of the people. This scheme is to be implemented by the health department of the state.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Random tests for blood sugar, blood pressure, eye check-up and other lab check-ups will be performed. These tests will help in the identification of long term problems of the citizens. 

मंत्रिमंडल की बैठक में अहम विषयों पर चर्चा करने के साथ महत्वपूर्ण निर्णय लिए। स्वास्थ्य के क्षेत्र में बड़ी योजना को शुरू करने की मंजूरी दी, इससे सभी वर्गों को लाभ मिलेगा।#शिखरकीओरहिमाचल#मंत्रिमंडलकीबैठक pic.twitter.com/fNWPVnzIlO
— CMO HIMACHAL (@CMOFFICEHP) November 5, 2018

The state govt. has also made other announcements in the cabinet meeting held on 5 November 2018. For complete details of the decisions taken, visit the official website www.cmohimachal.com





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
