
कमजोर वर्गों के उपचार के लिए हिमाचल प्रदेश सरकार ने शुरू करी सहारा योजना, राज्य सरकार कैंसर, पारकिनसन, पैरालिसिस, मस्कुलर डिस्ट्रॉफी, थैलेसिमिया, हिमोफिलिया और रेनल फेलियर जैसी गंभीर बीमारियों से ग्रसित व्यक्तियों को प्रति माह 3000 रुपये की आर्थिक मदद देगी

Table of Contents

Himachal Pradesh Sahara Yojana 2020 Offline ApplicationHP Sahara Yojana 2020 Eligibility CriteriaList of Documents Required to Apply Online for Sahara SchemeHighlights / Launch Details of HP Sahara Yojana
HP Sahara Yojana 2020 offline application has now been started by the Himachal Pradesh government on 11 September 2020. In this scheme, the state govt. will provide Rs. 3,000 per month to people suffering from severe diseases. HP Sahara Yojna will cover specific serious illnesses like paralysis, parkinson, cancer, muscular dystrophy, hemophilia, thalassemia and renal failure. The state govt. will provide financial assistance to patients belonging to economically weaker sections (EWS) category. 
This Sahara Scheme was announced in the Himachal Pradesh Budget 2019-20 to provide assistance to poor patients for medical treatment. Through HP Sahara Yojana, people would be able to meet the hardships faced during prolonged treatment of chronic diseases.
The state govt. of Himachal Pradesh had allocated Rs. 2,482 crore for healthcare scheme in Budget 2019-20 earlier. Now the scheme would continue benefiting people in the FY 2020-21 also.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Himachal Pradesh Sahara Yojana 2020 Offline Application
The important features and highlights of this Sahara Yojana in Himachal Pradesh are as follows:-
For medical treatment, govt. will provide Rs. 3,000 per month to EWS category patients.Serious diseases like paralysis, parkinson, cancer, muscular dystrophy, haemophilia, thalassemia are included. Moreover, chronic renal failure or any other disease which renders a person permanently incapacitated are also included.The main aims is to assist poor patients suffering from fatal diseases to migrate hardships faced during prolonged treatment.In the 1st phase, around 9,471 patients had been covered for which Rs. 14.40 crore were provided in FY 2019. Now for the FY 2020-21, this scheme will continue to benefit those patients along with new ones.CM Jai Ram Thakur had announced this Sahara Yojana earlier in 2nd HP Budget 2019-20. CMO Office has now officially started this scheme on 11 September 2020 for FY 2020-21 through a tweet on CMO Himachal (@CMOFFICEHP). 
A campaign would be launched to popularize the Sahara Yojna. The Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) and other health workers would identify beneficiaries and will assist them with prescribed formalities. The HP state govt. will also provide an incentive of Rs. 200 to ASHA workers to encourage participation. Offline application process will be carried out by these Anganwadi workers, Asha workers along with their helpers.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

HP Sahara Yojana 2020 Eligibility Criteria
All the people who wants to become the HP Sahara Yojana beneficiaries must fulfill the conditions given below:-
Resident of Himachal Pradesh – All the applicants who wish to avail assistance must be a permanent resident of the Himachal Pradesh state.Economically Weaker Sections – All the candidates who belong to economically weaker section (EWS) category and comes below poverty line can avail assistance and treatment.Income Criteria – The annual income of the candidate from all sources, must not exceed Rs. 4 lakh p.a.Diagnosed Patients – Candidates who are on diagnosis must present a proof of their illness to get assistance.
In addition to these, there are around 4200 patients suffering from HIV / AIDS, the state govt. has extended their assistance to Rs. 1500 per month. Moreover, the Himachal Pradesh govt. will also start Mobile Diagnostic Van for identification and treatment of breast and survical cancer.
हिमाचल सरकार ने गंभीर बीमारियों से ग्रस्त व्यक्तियों को स्वास्थ्य सेवाओं के लाभ की आवश्यकताओं को पूर्ण करने हेतु ‘‘सहारा योजना’’ शुरू की है।योजना के अंतर्गत उक्त मरीजों को 3000 रुपए प्रतिमाह का वित्तीय लाभ देने का प्रावधान है। pic.twitter.com/Is8AI9GXeT— CMO HIMACHAL (@CMOFFICEHP) September 11, 2020 
List of Documents Required to Apply Online for Sahara Scheme
Here is the complete list of documents required to apply online for Sahara Yojana in Himachal Pradesh:-
Permanent Residence Certificate – In order to get their residence verified and confirmed, applicants can produce permanent residence certificate.Aadhaar Card or Identity Certificate – ID proof is a must document for any scheme, so applicants will have to prove their identity by showing some documents like Aadhaar card or any other documents.Treatment History – The treatment record of the applicant patient must be there to get assistance.Birth Certificate or 10th Marksheet – In order to prove date of birth of the applicant, either birth certificate or 10th marksheet needs to be produced.Income Certificate – To confirm that applicant belongs to economically weaker section (EWS) category, income certificate must be produced.Bank Details – The financial assistance amount of Rs. 3,000 per month would be transferred into the bank accounts of the beneficiaries through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode, so bank details are required.Passport Size Photograph – Recent 2 passport size photograph of the applicants would be required to fill application form.
Highlights / Launch Details of HP Sahara Yojana
Here are the highlights and launch details of the Himachal Pradesh Sahara Yojana 2020:- 
Official Name of SchemeHP Sahara YojanaLaunch Date11 September 2020Assistance AmountRs. 36,000 per annumLaunched byChief Minister Office (CMO) Himachal PradeshImplementation YearFY 2020-21Concerned DepartmentHealth & Family Welfare DepartmentMajor BeneficiariesPeople from Economically Weaker SectionsSalient Features of HP Sahara Yojana
People suffering from severe illnesses would be able to benefit from HP Sahara Yojana 2020-21.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/shimla/himachal-launches-sahara-scheme-for-poor-patients/articleshow/70322269.cms
SAVE AS PDF
