
The state government of Punjab has extended the last date of Bhagat Puran Singh Sehat Bima Yojana to the citizen of the state. Now the citizen can make their registration till 31st March 2018. Sehat Bima Yojana will provide cashless treatment facilities and health services to poor people of the state at specialized hospitals.
Earlier, the Punjab Government has increased the limit of cashless treatment from Rs 30,000 to Rs 50,000 under Bhagat Puran Singh Sehat Bima Yojana (BPSSBY). All blue card holders will get better healthcare treatment in all the districts across the state. The beneficiary can take health treatment in all government and empaneled private hospital. 
The candidate can do their registration under the scheme till 31st March 2018. Below given are all the details and benefits of Bhagat Puran Singh Sehat Bima Yojana.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Benefits of Bhagat Puran Singh Sehat Bima Yojana

The beneficiary farmer and their family will get a healthy cover of up to Rs. 50,000 for their treatment.
Moreover, in death cases or accident causing 100 percent disability to the person, the beneficiary will receive a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh.
The farmers will receive cashless and free treatment at all government and empaneled private hospitals.
The beneficiaries will get free medicine for the treatment. Charges for one day prior to admission in the empaneled private hospital and upto five days after discharge will be covered.
Below given is the list of all all government and empaneled private hospitals. The candidate can download the list by clicking the below link.

BPSSBY Empaneled Hospitals
Subsequently, the health insurance coverage is being provided by United India Insurance Company and in the case of accidental and disability, insurance coverage will be given by the reliance general insurance company. According to the notification, the Bhagat Puran Singh Sehat Bima Yojana will cover around 28.90 lakh blue card holders, 7 lakh farmers, 2.33 lakh small traders and 2 lakh construction workers. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The interested candidates can call on toll free number 104 for any query or issues. They can also visit the official website at http://www.bpssby.com





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
