


Table of Contents

Punjab Smart Ration Card Scheme 2020Details on the Smart Ration CardPunjab Smart Ration Card Scheme Online ApplyRation Card Punjab Form PDFSecurity Features of Smart Ration CardPunjab Smart Ration Card Helpline
Punjab Government Ration Card Application Form | New Smart Ration Card Apply Online Punjab | Pujnab Smart Ration Card Form PDF Download Punjab
Smart Ration Card Scheme under NFSA is a new scheme of Punjab Government which has been rolled out on 12 September 2020 by CM Captain Amarinder Singh. The state government of Punjab had already given its approval for replacement of blue cards under the Atta-Dal scheme with new smart ration cards. As per the orders of State government, the Atta Dal Scheme has been renamed as Smart Ration Card Scheme. This new scheme will cover 1.41 crore beneficiaries as per the new list. CM also announces a new state funded scheme to provide subsidized ration to 9 lakh beneficiaries not covered under NFSA.
Smart Ration Card will be used for withdrawing the food grains from the Fair Price Shops (FPS) through e-PoS machines without carrying any additional document. The details of the family can be fetched at Fair Price Shops just by swiping the smart ration card at the ePoS machines. The biometric authentication after the card swipe will be required for food grain withdrawal.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

One of the major benefits of the smart ration cards will be that these card would be intra-state portable, meaning the smart ration card holder would be able to withdraw food grains anywhere in the state irrespective of their permanent resident district.
Deputy Commissioners of all the districts in the state would be responsible for the re-verification of the beneficiaries. Punjab govt. has initiated process of making smart ration cards with chip to distribute subsidized ration to BPL families.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Punjab Smart Ration Card Scheme 2020
The important features and highlights of Punjab Smart Ration Card Scheme 2020 are as follows.
The total number of beneficiaries of Smart Rashan Card Scheme are 1.41 crore in Punjab.Eldest Woman will be the head of family.Wheat will be given at a price of Rs. 2/- per Kg.The biannual entitlement of wheat will be given at one go.The distribution will be done at the doorstep of the beneficiary directly by the Punjab govt. food and civil supplies department.The beneficiary gets to keep the wheat bags in which he gets the grains.The beneficiaries are de-duplicated on the basis Aaadhar number.The beneficiary can go to the consumer court, in case they does not get wheat as per his entitlement.Wheat will be delivered in 30 kg standard packing.The department officials, beneficiary, transporter, gram panchayat, nigrani committee – all will work in coordination for proper disbursement of wheat.There is no upper cap. Every member gets five kg wheat per month.
Details on the Smart Ration Card
Following details would be printed on the smart ration card of PunjabLogo of the Government of PunjabName of the scheme: Smart Card Ration SchemeName of the Department: Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, PunjabRation Card Number: 12 digit numberName of the District, Block, VillageName of the Head of the FamilyFPS Owner NameAddress of the beneficiaryParticulars of Family membersQR Code on the back side
Punjab Smart Ration Card Scheme Online Apply
All the details of the cardholder beneficiaries have been digitized and are available at the transparency portal of Department of Food, Civil Supplies & Consumer Affairs Punjab at http://foodsuppb.gov.in/.
Under the Smart Ration Card Scheme, the State of Punjab is going to provide Smart Ration Cards to approximately 36 Lakh NFSA families across the state.
However, there is no notification / update from the state government about the application procedure for the New smart ration card. It seems, all the existing ration card holders would get their smart ration cards through their respective fair price shops in the state or by physical mail at their registered addresses.
The block wise list of active fair price shops is also available on the same portal and can be accessed by selecting the district and block. This new Smart Ration card scheme is being implemented under the National Food Security Act-2013. The state government has already seeded all the details of the beneficiaries with their Aadhar numbers.
Ration Card Punjab Form PDF
Here is the direct link to download the Punjab ration card form in PDF format for any change / correction in details of members / removal of family members:Punjab Ration Card Form PDF

All the candidates can now download the ration card form PDF for addition, change and deletion of name in ration card and submit at the Fair Price Shop. In order to apply for ration card and get ration at subsidized rates, one has to approach the Food and Civil Supplies office or the fair price shop in their area.
Security Features of Smart Ration Card
Smart ration card in Punjab will be equipped with several unique security features such as
Details of the beneficiaries integrated in the chip will be locked.The ration cards would only be read by the authenticated devices.The micro text technology is used in the Smart Rations Cards which cannot be visible through naked eyes. It will be visible under Ultra Violet Light.The QR Code printed or the back side of the Cards is a combination of more than one fields.
Integration with Family ID
These Smart Ration Cards will be integrated with State Family ID, which is issued by the Government of Punjab under Unified State Identity Card for availing the benefits of all central/State schemes to which the family is entitled.
The State Family ID would be “PBF” followed by 9-digit number e.g. PBF123456789 which will be backed by a checksum validation. This Unified State ID will help the State to create a State database of the families/ citizens covered under various schemes.
Working / Implementation
The Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL), Broadcasting Engineering Consultants Indian Ltd. (BECIL) and Electronics Corporation of India Limited (ECIL) has got the direction from the state government for implementing the work of computerization of TPDS. The companies will follow a proper price discovery mechanism for successful implementation the scheme.
The state government would also provide e-PoS (Electronic Point of Sale) machines at various purchase centers, DCP godowns and FPS in the state. These machines would be linked to the weighing machines and IRIS scanners.
The machines would use the bio-metric Aadhar based identification of the beneficiaries. The new smart ration cards in place of normal blue card will help increase the efficiency and bring more transparency in the whole public distribution system.
Punjab Smart Ration Card Helpline
The beneficiaries can file their complaints before the vigilance committees, Departmental Officers, District Grievances Redressal Officers (Additional Deputy Commissioner level officers), State Food Commission or at toll free number 1800 300 61313 and at new portal http://connect.punjab.gov.in.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
