
पंजाब वोटर लिस्ट 2020 (PDF) अब सीईओ की आधिकारिक वेबसाइट ceopunjab.nic.in पर उपलब्ध है, नयी मतदाता सूची में अपना नाम अपनी जानकारी या EPIC नंबर के आधार पर खोजें और वोटर ID कार्ड डाउनलोड करेंElection Commission of India has announced Lok Sabha elections in the country. In the Punjab state, elections on 13 Loksabha seats was held in 7th phase i.e voting was on 19th May 2019. Chief Electoral Officer has published CEO Punjab Voter List 2020, here people can perform name search in the PDF Electoral Rolls, final name online and download Voters ID Card at ceopunjab.nic.in.
All the citizens can check their name in the district wise CEO Punjab Voters List 2020 with Photo and download Voter ID Card. The updated Electoral Rolls with Photo are available in the PDF format where people can find their name in the CEO Punjab Voter List 2020 and can Download Voter ID Card before casting their vote.
The entire PDF file of the Punjab Electoral Roll (Voter List) 2019-2020 is now available. Here citizens can perform manual searching in the Punjab Voter List 2020. Moreover, people can adopt a hassle free process and check their names online.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

CEO Punjab Voter List with Photo (PDF Electoral Roll) Download
Below is the complete procedure to find name in the CEO Punjab Voters List with Photo and download complete PDF electoral rolls:-

Visit the official website ceopunjab.nic.in
At the homepage, click at the “Electoral Rolls” tab present in the main menu or directly click Electoral Rolls to open the page as shown below:-
CEO Electoral Roll Punjab
Then click at the “Photo Electoral Roll” link or directly click at Punjab Voter List Photo Electoral Rolls to open page as shown below:-
CEO Punjab Voter List 2019
Next click at the district name (for eg – Ludhiana) to open the page displaying assembly constituency names as shown below:-
Voter List Ludhiana 2020
Then click at the assembly constituency name and next at “Electoral Rolls PDF”, then at Part Number to open the Punjab Voter List with Photo PDF file as shown below:-
Punjab Voter List With Photo PDF Download

People can download this Punjab Voter List with Photo and find name manually in the CEO Punjab Voters List.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Find Name Online in Punjab CEO Voters List 2020
All the citizens can even find their name online in the Punjab CEO Voters List 2019-2020 and download voter ID card through the link below:-
Punjab Voter ID Card Download
Punjab Voter ID Card Download Name Search
Here candidates can enter their name, date of birth, father / husband name, gender, state, district, assembly constituency and then click at “Search” button to find their name in the CEO Punjab Voter List 2020. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: ceopunjab.nic.in
SAVE AS PDF
