
Punjab government has given approval to the Smart Village Campaign (SVC) on 29 January 2019 in order to improve rural infrastructure. For implementation of Smart Village Scheme in Punjab, the ministerial cabinet has allocated Rs. 384 crore. The state govt. will primarily focus on health, education, infrastructure and environment.
The work to be taken under the Smart Village Campaign has been divided into 2 categories namely essential work and desirable work. These works under Smart Village Scheme are going to improve the quality of life and raise the living standards of people residing in the villages.
The campaign will converge and supplement ongoing governmental schemes to build infrastructure and provide essential amenities.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Punjab Smart Village Campaign 2019
Smart Village Campaign aims to improve living conditions in rural areas by supplementing govt. schemes to build infrastructure and provide necessary facilities like health, education and environment. Essential Work and Desirable Work would be the 2 categories on which govt. would work upon under this campaign. The deputy commissioner would get proposals from block development and panchayat officers concerned and from sectoral departments.
According to the Smart Village Scheme in Punjab, individual works upto Rs. 25 lakh will be considered and approved by the committee. This committee would comprise of the deputy commissioner as its chairperson and additional deputy commissioner as its member secretary. The other members of the committee would be district development and panchayat officer, deputy chief executive officer of zila parishad and executive engineer of panchayati raj department.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

If the work done by an individual costs above Rs. 25 lakh, then approval would be needed from the state level committee. This state level committee would include joint development commissioner as chairperson and superintending engineer (PRC) Mohali as member secretary. The state govt. would utilize funds from different sources like rural development fund, 14th finance commission, MGNREGA, swachh bharat mission and national rural drinking water programme.

Punjab Cabinet, under Chief Minister @capt_amarinder Singh, approved release of funds of ₹298.75 cr for Infrastructure Development under an Urban Environment Improvement Programme #UEIP and ₹384.40 crore for ‘Smart Village Campaign’ #SVC for the overall development of villages pic.twitter.com/h6wVrCssHU
— CMO Punjab (@CMOPb) January 29, 2019

For work done through MGNREGA, it is going to be surely converged with this Smart Village Campaign. All the villages across the state will be given grades or rank on the basis of a survey. The detailed guidelines for the survey are going to be notified by the rural development and panchayat department.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
