
पंजाब सरकार करीब 43.18 लाख परिवारों को 5 लाख तक का मुफ्त इलाज उपलब्ध कराएगी, 1 जुलाई 2019 से सरबत सेहत बीमा योजना (SSBY) की करेगी शुरुआतPunjab government is going to launch its flagship Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana (SSBY) from 1 July 2019. Under this universal health insurance scheme, the state govt. will provide an annual health coverage of Rs. 5 lakh per family per annum. Around 43.18 lakh families in Punjab would get covered under SSBY universal health coverage scheme. 
All the government hospitals and around 364 private hospitals in Punjab have already been empanelled. Here all the Punjab Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana beneficiaries would get secondary and tertiary treatment. Punjab SSBY scheme is not based on caste, gender or religion but includes all rural and urban families.
People can now avail cashless treatment at any govt. / private empanelled hospital in the state and there is also no limit on family size. Punjab Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana Final List of Beneficiaries now available at shapunjab.in.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Punjab Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana (SSBY) 2019
The important features and highlights of Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana in Punjab are as follows:-

Universal Health Insurance Coverage of Rs. 5 lakh to all SSBY beneficiaries.
Cashless treatment at all government hospitals along with 364 private empanelled hospitals.
Claim settlement to be done at the hospital as this is not a reimbursement scheme rather a cashless treatment scheme.
There is no limit on family size as all the family members would be eligible.
 A total number of 43.18 lakh families in Punjab to be covered under SSBY Scheme in Punjab. These include:-

The beneficiaries includes the 14.86 lakh families already covered under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) in Punjab.
Around 20.48 lakh other poor families possessing blue cards.
7.84 lakh families from various departments like 5 lakh farmers under Punjab Mandi Board.
46,000 families under Excise and Taxation Department
2.38 lakh construction workers registered with construction worker’s welfare board.



The state govt. of Punjab has already prepared a database of 43.18 lakh beneficiary families. The Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana is going to be implemented from 1 July 2019. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The cost of premium for the families covered under the central govt’s PMJAY scheme would be borne by the center and the Punjab govt. in 60:40 ratio.
Also Read – Punjab Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana E-Cards to Beneficiaries
Also Read – Punjab Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna List of Hospitals
For the rest of 28.32 lakh families, the complete premium amount would be borne by the Punjab government.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/punjab-to-roll-out-universal-health-insurance-scheme-from-july-119061301073_1.html
SAVE AS PDF
