
Punjab govt. is organizing 2nd State Level Mega Job Fair and is inviting online registrations for Punjab Rozgar Mela 2018 under Ghar Ghar Naukri 2018 initiative. Subsequently, all the candidates who are searching for good jobs can now apply against given vacancies under Ghar Ghar Rojgar Scheme – Phase II. Interested candidates can apply online through the official website ggnpunjab.com or ghargharrozgar.punjab.gov.in
Department of Employment Generation and Training is organizing this Punjab Rojgar Mela to provide jobs to the unemployed candidates. The primary objective is to provide jobs to every single berojgar candidate from every home in Punjab. This Ghar Ghar Naukri 2018 initiative will improve the overall conditions of the residents as there are 46,000 jobs on offering in this second phase of Ghar ghar Rozgar Scheme. 
Latest Update – Punjab Ghar Ghar Rozgar Scheme 2019 Registration & Login 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

For this Punjab Job Fair, interested and eligible candidates can make online registration through the official website and can take part in interview of various companies appearing in Rozgar Mela between 20 February 2018 to 8 March 2018. 
Ghar Ghar Naukri 2018 – 2nd Job Fair Registration Procedure
Below are the complete details to apply online for 2nd state level Mega Job Fair in Punjab:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Firstly, visit the official website ggnpunjab.com [WEBSITE NO WORKING NOW]
Subsequently on the homepage, click the “Register” tab or directly click this link
Accordingly, candidates have to click the “Register Here” tab to firstly make ggn punjab registration as a Job Seeker.
Afterwards, “Ghar Ghar Naukri 2018 Registration Form” will appear as shown below:-
Ghar Ghar Naukri 2018 Registration Form
Here candidates have to enter their personal details, Address details, Education Details, General information, Employment details and areas for which candidate is seeking job.
Afterwards, candidates can click the “Register” button to complete the registration process and get username and Password.
Henceforth, candidates can Login for Job Mela Feb – March at ghargharrozgar.punjab.gov.in through the link – Click Here
Finally, candidates can update their profile (educational qualifications, skills, experience) details to complete the application process.
Candidate must take the printout of this completed application form along with their Resume at the Time of Interview.

Direct link – Candidates can make direct Registration for Punjab 2nd State Level Mega job Fair through the link – http://ghargharrozgar.punjab.gov.in/app/register 
Important Instructions – Punjab Job Fair Registration
The candidates must make online registrations after reading the necessary instructions as shown below:-
Punjab Job Fair Registration Details
Any Jobseeker including those who have participated / make registration in Punjab Rozgar Mela 2017 can directly appear for Punjab Job Fair 2018. Moreover, candidates can contact job mela venue suitable for them and helpdesk to assist them for registration in various other job melas. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
