
Punjab govt. is going to launch Aajeevika Grameen Express Yojana (AGEY) on 2 October 2018 to provide interest-free loans for the purchase of vehicles. Now members of self help groups (SHGs) can avail loans to purchase vehicles not costing more than Rs. 6 lakh. AGEY scheme is a part of the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana – National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NRLM).
Aajeevika Grameen Express Yojana (AGEY) will help in providing safe, affordable and community monitored rural transport services to connect remote villages with key services and amenities. Self Help Groups (SHGs) under DAY-NRLM will operate road transport services in backward areas.
SHGs can now avail interest free loans which has to be paid back within 6 years duration after which vehicle will be transferred in the name of the SHG member. This would result in the overall economic development of backward rural areas.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Punjab Aajeevika Grameen Express Yojana (AGEY)
The scheme Aajeevika Grameen Express Yojana is being launched under the National Rural Livelihood Mission to benefit 123 self help group families. The community investment fund (CIF) provided to community based organization (CBOs) under DAY-NRLM will be utilized in order to support SHG members in this livelihoods initiative. SHG beneficiaries will be provided an interest free loan by the CBO upto Rs.6.50 lakh for purchase of the vehicle. 
Alternatively, it is also proposed that CBO will own the vehicle and lease it to an SHG member to operate the vehicle and pay lease rental to the CBO. This initiative is going to be launched as a pilot project in 6 blocks from FY 2018-19 to 2020-21.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

All the SHG members who operates these vehicles must ensure that he / she must be operating the vehicle with necessary requirements like valid permit, road tax permit, valid insurance policy. SHG members will run these vehicles on approved routes at pre-determined frequency agreed upon by CBO and SHG operator on the basis of financial viability and need for transport link.
All vehicles under Aajeevika Grameen Express Yojana (AGEY) scheme shall have a defined colour code. These vehicles would also carry AGEY branding to ensure their identity and avoid diversion to other routes.
Facilitation of Mahatma Gandhi Sarbat Vikas Yojna (MGSVY) Beneficiaries
On 2nd October 2018, CM will inaugurate a state-level mega camp to facilitate the beneficiaries of the Mahatma Gandhi Sarbat Vikas Yojna (MGSVY). As per the issued directions, 90 mega camps will be organized at sub-divisional levels across the state. 
These camps will ensure that no deserving and eligible beneficiary is deprived of the benefits of welfare schemes started under MGSVY. Till date, around 27 lakh applications have been received under MGSVY, out of which around 9 lakh beneficiaries are found to be eligible.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
