


Table of Contents

Punjab Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar Scheme 2020 for UnemployedPunjab Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar Yojana Online Application FormDistrict Wise Number of Vehicles in Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar Scheme 2020Punjab Apni Gaddi Apna Rojgar Scheme Subsidy Benefits for Jobless YouthBeneficiaries Selection in Apni Gaddi Ana Rozgar Yojana 2020Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar Scheme 2020 Eligibility CriteriaApni Gaddi Apna Rojgar Scheme 2020 Funds Allocation
Punjab govt. is going to start Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar Scheme 2020 for unemployed youth. Under this Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar Yojana, the state govt. will provide subsidy on purchase of vehicles. The main objective is to create Rojgar or self employment opportunities to enable people to earn their livelihood. All the jobless youths can now avail subsidy on loans for purchase of 3 wheelers / 4 wheelers vehicles. 
The modalities of Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar Scheme 2020 have been worked out by the state government of Punjab. The study of model of state like Maharashtra, Karnataka and West Bengal is being carried out where subsidy on purchase of vehicles is given for self employment is provided.
The revamped version of Apni Gadi Apna Rojgar Scheme is launched because the eligible beneficiaries were finding it difficult to arrange the margin money and get the vehicle financed from banks. Earlier, the Department of Employment Generation and Training had entered into agreement with web based cab providers like Ola / Uber and vehicles were to be arranged by the driving partners at their own cost. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Punjab Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar Scheme 2020 for Unemployed
All the jobless individuals will get subsidy on purchase of 3/4 wheeler vehicles for self employment under Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar Scheme 2020. The finance department has accepted the proposal of dept. to run Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar Yojana on pilot basis. Punjab govt. will soon start the process of inviting Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar Scheme apply online form 2020.
Punjab Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar Yojana Online Application Form
Punjab govt. will launch this scheme on pilot basis in Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala and Ropar cluster including Mohali and Fatehgarh Sahib. In the 1st phase of Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar Scheme, subsidy will be provided for purchase of 600 cars. The state govt. has entered into an agreement with Uber. The total no.of vehicles to ply in these districts is fixed as per the demand study conducted by Uber. Dept. will invite Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar Yojana Online Application Form 2020 from potential beneficiaries.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The eligible beneficiaries will be selected for Apni Gaddi Apna Rojgar Scheme by the respective district committee. This committee will comprise of deputy commissioner, district employment generation and training officer, representatives of Punjab State Co-operative bank and Uber. 
District Wise Number of Vehicles in Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar Scheme 2020
As per the information, the state govt. of Punjab will run these number of vehicles in various districts which are as follows:-


District Name
Number of Vehicles


Ropar Cluster including Mohali and Fatehgarh Sahib
400


Ludhiana
100


Patiala
50


Amritsar
50


Punjab Apni Gaddi Apna Rojgar Scheme Subsidy Benefits for Jobless Youth
The state govt. of Punjab will provide subsidy for 3/4 wheelers in the following manner to unemployed youth:-

4 Wheelers – 15% of total “On Road” cost of four wheeler vehicle or Rs. 75,000 (whichever is less).
3 Wheelers – 15% of total “On Road” cost of three wheeler vehicle or Rs. 50,000 (whichever is less).
15% of the total cost is to be borne by the unemployed candidate
The remaining amount would be financed by the Punjab State Cooperative Bank.

As many as 30% of total vehicles loans have been reserved for applicants from scheduled caste (SC) category.
Beneficiaries Selection in Apni Gaddi Ana Rozgar Yojana 2020
The applicants will be selected on the merit basis i.e on the basis of marks obtained out of total 100 marks. The marks distribution for Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar Scheme is given below:-


Educational Qualification


Education
Marks


8th Pass
20


10th Pass
25


12th Pass
30


Graduation
35


Driving Experience


Licence Holding Duration
Marks


0 to 3 years
20


Above 3 years to 6 years
25


Above 6 years to 9 years
30


Above 9 years
35


Interview


Interview
30


The maximum marks under educational qualification section is 35, driving experience section is 35 and interview is 30 which totals to 100. 
Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar Scheme 2020 Eligibility Criteria
The candidates must follow the given eligibility criteria to become eligible for subsidy under Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar Scheme 2020:-

The age of the applicant must lie b/w 21 to 45 years.
Applicant should possess valid driving license for commercial 4 wheelers or 3 wheelers vehicles.
Applicant must be a resident of the district where application is submitted.

Selected beneficiaries of Punjab Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar Scheme 2020 will have to repay equated monthly installments (EMI) to bank as per the agreement. In case any applicant fails to remit EMIs, the banks will act as per the rules to recover balance amount.
Apni Gaddi Apna Rojgar Scheme 2020 Funds Allocation
Punjab govt. has earmarked a budget of Rs. 5 crore for implementation of Apni Gaddi Apna Rojgar Scheme 2020. The fund amount would be transferred to Punjab State Cooperative Bank for using as margin money. The steps taken by the Punjab govt. will provide self employment opportunities to those who wants employment in transport sector. This scheme will be replicated in other parts of the state after evaluating the outcome of pilot project.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chandigarh/punjab-to-provide-subsidy-for-purchase-of-vehicles-to-unemployed/articleshow/73146964.cms
SAVE AS PDF
