
Cabinet committee of Punjab govt. has approved to implement PM Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) health insurance scheme in the state. As per the central scheme of PM Jan Arogya Yojana, around 14.96 lakh families of the state whose name appears in the SECC 2011 data are being proposed to get this insurance coverage. But the state govt. has extended the central PM Jan Arogya Yojana to cover 42 lakh families.
Under PMJAY health insurance scheme in Punjab, all the poor families will get an insurance coverage of Rs. 5 lakh p.a for secondary and tertiary hospitalization. Any age, gender, family size criteria is not applicable to any of the PMJAY beneficiaries and the beneficiaries are solely selected on the basis of deprivation.
Capt. Amarinder Singh said that with this decision, the state govt. has fulfilled its promise of universal health insurance cover to poor citizens in Punjab.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Punjab PM Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) Health Insurance Scheme
PM Jan Arogya Yojana in Punjab is a mega health insurance scheme to provide insurance coverage of Rs. 5 lakh p.a to 42 lakh families in the state. All the beneficiaries can avail treatment in any govt. / private empanelled hospitals irrespective of the family size, age and gender. The premium amount is NIL i.e the beneficiaries need not pay any premium amount to avail treatment benefits. PMJAY health insurance scheme in Punjab would put an additional burden of Rs. 300 crore on the state exchequer.

My Cabinet today decided to implement PMJAY while extending it to 42 lakh families as against 14.96 lakh provided for under the original central scheme. With this we have fulfilled our promise of universal health insurance cover in Punjab. pic.twitter.com/fDJdObcuab


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

— Capt.Amarinder Singh (@capt_amarinder) October 3, 2018

All pre-existing conditions will be covered from day one of the policy and the benefit cover would include pre & post hospitalization procedures. In Punjab, this insurance scheme would cover around 1,350 medical packages including surgery, medical and day care treatments, cost of medicines and diagnostics. The entire process to avail treatment would be paperless and cashless and appointed Arogya Mitras at the hospitals would assist people in the entire process.
Hospitals are not allowed to charge any additional money from beneficiaries for the treatment purpose. All the eligible beneficiaries can avail services across India, offering benefit of national portability. For information, assistance, complaints and grievances, call on the 24X7 helpline number – 14555.
PMJAY health insurance scheme in Punjab will enable creation of new health infrastructure in rural, remote and under-served areas, enhance patient satisfaction, improve health outcomes and will improve quality of life of poor people.
Cabinet committee has also approved Sports Policy-2018 to promote sports and strengthen infrastructure. The state govt. enhanced awards for sports-persons in recognition of excellence in national and international performances.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
