
Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar Yojana is a new scheme announced by the Chief Minister of Punjab, Captain Amrindar Singh. Under the scheme, teh state government will provide taxis to jobless youth at subsidized rates. The Punjab government has tied up with two largest taxi operator companies in India, Ola and Uber. The state government will put the scheme under the new draft transport policy which will be launched in coming weeks.
In its election manifesto, the congress government has promised to the jobless youth of Punjab to provide 1 Lakh taxis, commercial light commercial vehicles and other vehicles every year at subsidized rates. These vehicles will be provided under the Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar Yojana with no collateral requirement for the loan.
Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar Yojana – Objective
The main objective of Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar Yojana is to provide jobs to the jobless youth and an opportunity to make them self reliant. The new draft transport policy will also open up permits for jobless youth to help in efficient implementation of Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar Yojana.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The taxis would be provided at subsidized rates and no collateral would be required for the loan for purchasing the taxi. The loan repayment period would be 5 years under the scheme.
Highlights of Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar Yojana

1 Lakh taxis and commercial vehicles per year at subsidized rates.
No collateral for loan and 5 year repayment period.
Tie-up with Ola and Uber taxi operators.
Reconstruction of 22 district transport offices.
Overhaul of the four RTA offices at Patiala, Jalandhar, Ferozepur and Bathinda.
Completely transparent process for allotment of permits.
Applications for driving license to be invited through online portal SAARTHI.
Vehicle registrations to go online through VAAHAN web portal.

Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar Yojana will definitely help jobless youth in making them self reliant. The scheme is expected to receive a great response after it is launched.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

It is not clear if the applications for the subsidy on vehicles would be invited either through online or offline mode. However, keep watching this page for latest updates on “Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar Yojana” taxi subsidy scheme of Punjab Government.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
