
Punjab govt. rolled out its flagship E-Naksha Online Building Plan Approval System (OBPAS) on 17 August 2018. This will be a one-stop platform where all architects or citizens can submit drawings or documents for building plan approval. This will meet the demands of 165 Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) in addition to 27 Improvement Trusts. People can access the portal at enaksha.lgpunjab.gov.in
The state govt. is elected by the people which in turn is accountable to people. So, the state govt. is ensuring transparency through e-governance. Govt. is also focusing on modernization of infrastructure in all Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) of the state.
OBPAS would be a purely online platform and Navjot Sidhu said that he gives time frame of 1 and half months to sort out the technicalities w.r.t project. After which, no building plan will be allowed to be submitted manually.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Punjab E-Naksha Online Building Plan Approval System (OBPAS) Registration
Below is the complete procedure to make online registration for OBPAS Scheme:-

Firstly, visit the official website enaksha.lgpunjab.gov.in
At the homepage, click at the “New Professional Registration” tab
Then Punjab E-Naksha Online Building Plan Approval System (OBPAS) Online Registration Form will appear as follows:-
Punjab E-Naksha OBPAS Online Registration Form
Here candidates have to fill all the details correctly and then click at the “Submit Now” button to complete the registration process.
Finally, candidates have to make “Login” to submit their drawings and get building approval.

This would be a five step process and after its implementation, people would not have to make unnecessary rounds at the govt. offices to get their maps / drawings approved. This would save precious time and energy of general public and architects. Govt. will integrate with e-Governance portal as already mentioned in G2C objective


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The next focus area of the state govt. is starting of e-CLU system. This initiative will bring in transparency and these citizen friendly services will save time and money of people. For more details, visit the official website www.enaksha.lgpunjab.gov.in 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
