
Punjab CM Amarinder Singh has announced allotment of 1 lakh plots of around 1,300 sq.ft each to homeless Dalit families across the state. CM said that in the 1st phase of allotment, govt. will allot at-least 10 plots of 5 marlas (1 marla = 272 sq.ft) each to homeless scheduled caste (SC) families in each village. For this, land needs to remain available with the village panchayat. 
In case the panchayat land is not available, the allotment of plots would be done in the 2nd phase after the state govt. makes arrangement for the land. Rural development and Panchayat dept. has been given the task to monitor the complete allotment process.
Captain Amarinder Singh had announced this decision for allotment of plots during a review meeting of govt. projects with deputy commissioners of various districts.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

1 Lakh Plots to Homeless Dalit Households in Punjab
Chief Minister had made an announcement on 22 January 2019 to allot 1 lakh residential plots of around 1300 sq.ft each to homeless dalit households. In 1st phase, Punjab govt. is going to allot at-least 10 plots of 5 marlas (1 marla = 272 sq.ft) each to homeless SC households in every village on lands available with village panchayat. If panchayat land is not available, plots allotment is going to be done in 2nd phase after govt. makes arrangement for the land. 
In the review meeting, Captain Amarinder Singh asked deputy commissioners to work hard for timely completion of various govt. projects and implementation of the people welfare schemes. The state govt. will provide every possible help needed to ensure timely completion of projects for development of state. CM had also warned officials against corruption and said that corruption would not be tolerated at any level.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The recent feedback in Punjab suggested that pace of works was very slow, CM expresses his concern and sought faster implementation of govt. projects and schemes. For debt waiver scheme, CM asked deputy commissioners to involve local representatives to ensure that no eligible person is left out of Punjab Farm loan Waiver Scheme.
As per the official statement, Rural Development and Panchayat Dept. is being given the task to monitor the allotment process. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
