
Punjab govt. is going to support for setting up of modern dairy centres to provide standardize feed to milch animals to increase milk production. Under this scheme, govt. will provide subsidy of Rs. 20 lakh to setup dairy service centers to encourage progressive dairy farmers and budding entrepreneurs.
Dairy centres are going to produce silage which is made from green fodder & maize and a substitute to green fodder. Green fodder is available in adequate quantity in Kharif and Rabi season with exception in October and November where farmers faces acute shortage of green fodder for milch animals.
In order to tackle this difficult situation which adversely affects the milk production, the state govt. has chalked out this scheme to set up modern dairy service centres across the state.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Subsidy to Setup Modern Dairy Centres in Punjab
The state govt. will provide Rs. 20 lakh as subsidy to progressive dairy farmers and emerging entrepreneurs to setup modern dairy centers. This subsidy amount will ensure quality standard feed to milk cattle which will further raise milk production. Dairy centers will produce shielded silk made up of green fodder and maize. 
This is an alternative of of green fodder as milch animals does not get adequate fodder in the month of October and November. To tackle this problem which adversely affects milk production, the state govt. has decided to setup modern service centres across the state. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The state govt. has already developed this technique in Punjab. Many farmers-cum-entrepreneurs are already selling this preserved fodder made from maize with dairy farmers of the state along with other states. The subsidy amount to setup modern dairy centers would result in increasing rural employment opportunities through entrepreneurship, development of sustainability of dairy sector, strengthening of organized dairy farming sector.
Subsidy to setup modern dairy centres in Punjab would result in value addition and improved marketing for farmers. Moreover, the main focus is to automate the milk collection and pricing system of dairy co-operatives.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
