
Punjab state govt. has launched Aashirwad Scheme to provide financial assistance for the Marriage of the girl Child. In addition to this, the state government of Punjab has been decided to provide Rs. 8000 as a financial assistance for those women who are the victims of the acid attacks. The government has also changed the name from Shagun Scheme to Aashirwad Scheme.
Under the Shagun Scheme, the government is providing Rs. 15,000 as a financial assistance for marriage of daughter belongs from the poor family in the state. But this financial aid only for those girls who are above 18 years.
Moreover, the state government has made a provision under Punjab Financial Assistance to Acid Victims Scheme 2017 that women victims of acid attacks will get Rs. 8,000 per month per head. This scheme is being implemented by the Department of Social Security and Development of Women and Children, Punjab.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Highlights of Aashirwad Scheme Punjab
Below are some of the main highlights of Aashirwad Scheme Punjab :-

The beneficiary of the scheme would include girls belonging to the state of Punjab only.
Accordingly, the family members / relatives of women who are victim of acid attacks have to apply for the aid to the District Social Security Officer.
Subsequently, the government will form a committee at the district level under the chairmanship of Deputy Commissioner. This committee will sanction the financial aid to the victim.
Moreover, the state govt. will transfer payment directly into bank account of the beneficiaries.

In order to implement this scheme, the state government has extended the contract period of the Pharmacists workers working as a service provider in the state. Accordingly, this extension period will be of one year that would start from 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2018.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Furthermore, govt will recruit approximately 1,186 employees of IV class in Subsidiary Health Centres of Zila Parishads in Rural Development and Panchayats Department. Moreover, these employees will get salary at the existing rates of Rs 7,000 and Rs 3,000 per month respectively by the time they become regular.
Related Content
— Candidates can see the Punjab Crop Loan Waiver Scheme to provide financial assistance of Rs 2 lakhs to the Farmers.
— Furthermore, candidates can also see the Care Companion Health Care Scheme to provide better life to the patients in Punjab.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
