
The State government of Punjab has launched “Care Companion Programme” Healthcare Scheme. The aim of the scheme is to promote better health care services in the life of patients. This program will create awareness with the better family engagement and education across the state .
Department of Health and Family Welfare, Punjab has entered into an memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Noora Health India Trust, a healthcare NGO that is fully dedicated to patients care. This NGO will spread awareness as a caretaker and will provide education that works to improve patient health outcomes under the award winning Care Companion Program (CCP).
Care Companion Programme in Punjab
The Care Companion Program would be initially implemented in Maternal and Child Health wings of six district hospitals in Punjab.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Name of District

Amritsar
Patiala
Jalandhar
SBS Nagar
Sangrur
TarnTaran

After effective implementation of the scheme, care companion program will be covered in all districts throughout the state. under the scheme, The hospital hallways / wards will turns into classrooms that would provide all necessary information regarding health care. The classrooms will be attended by the patient’s own family.
The staff of hospital will teach the family members about high-impact medical skills to take care of their patients in the hospital and at home.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Families will learn high-impact health skills for taking care of the new-born baby and post-natal mother.This includes some specific disease that required more caring process named as..

Baby hygiene
Thermal care
Breastfeeding
Maternal nutrition

The aim is to reduce the number of baby deaths and other diseases like infections in the first 30 days post-discharge, and ensure adoption of long-term health pro-motive behaviors.
Through the Care Companion Program, state govt. will improve the health status in the state and the welfare of Punjab’s citizens by increasing the awareness of its people. This companion will include many aware programs name is..
– Increasing hospital hygiene
– Decreasing post discharge complications
– Decreasing burden of re-admissions
– Decreasing the neonatal mortality
– Increasing productivity of nurses
– Patient satisfaction 
The care companion program is a free in – hospital educational – cum – training program for patent’s family members. This program is being developed for the direct response to the needs of patient and recognizes patient family members as an untapped existing patients. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
