
Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani announces Urban Sanitation and Cleanliness Policy 2018. The state govt. will now focus on better management of solid and liquid waste in cities and to ensure “Garbage-free Gujarat”. Under this scheme, govt. will build toilets, focus on recycling and re-use of waste, make zero waste cities, abolish manual scavenging etc in Urban Local Bodies (ULBs). Govt. will also make a system to convert solid waste into fuel to generate “green energy”. 
This policy will streamline collection and disposal of waste in cities and towns. Gujarat govt. will also focus on re-cycling and re-use of drainage water. Central govt. and state govt. will provide funds to ensure improvement in urban sanitation.
On the lines of National Urban Sanitation policy, this garbage free city policy is being prepared. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Gujarat New Urban Sanitation and Cleanliness Policy 2018
The important features and highlights of this Garbage Free State Policy are as follows:-

Govt. will provide proper toilet facilities in order to avoid dirt due to toilet in open. In case the individual toilets are not made, then public toilet facility will be developed.
All waste and waste water produced in Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) will undergo treatment process to make it available for re-use. This would be done as per the standards of Central Public Health and Environment Engineering Organization (CPHEEO) or according to standards of Environment and Forest Ministry.
Govt. will make “Zero Waste” cities with the help of 100% classification and storage system at commercial and residential waste sites. The main focus will be on the recycling and reuse of waste materials.
Manual Scavenging process will be abolished by eliminating manoeuvres, sewage lines and manholes.
In all Urban Local Body (ULB), natural sewers and rainwater sewage will be revived. Govt. will also lay special emphasis to ensure that waste water will not be disposed in Rainwater drain.
All ULB’s will adopt public health sub-legislation and will make it a system for all cities.
ULB’s will also be equipped with hygiene, environment and health.
All water resources within the limit of ULBs will be released from solid and liquid waste.
All ULBs will authorize land for development plan and local area plan for creation of infrastructure for sanitation.
Urban Sanitation Cleanliness Policy Details

Both central and state govt. will provide funds to improve urban cleanliness under New Urban Sanitation and Cleanliness Policy 2018. All the funds are going to be collected as the state sanitation fund. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Source – https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/gujarat-govt-announces-urban-sanitation-and-cleanliness-policy/articleshow/65162872.cms





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
