
Gujarat government has launched Road Accident Victim Compensation Scheme 2018. Under this scheme, the state govt. will provide free treatment upto Rs. 50,000 to all the road accident victims in the first 48 hours. This scheme will be applicable for all people whether resident of Gujarat or an outsider meeting road accidents in the state. Victims will be able to get admitted for treatment in any of the government or private hospital in the state.
This scheme is a major step of the state govt. to reduce the number of deaths due to accidents. Providing timely and best available treatment to the victims during the golden hour after accident will minimize the loss of life of people.
The intention of the state govt. is clearly to help people facing road accidents anywhere in Gujarat. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Road Accident Victim Compensation Scheme in Gujarat
The important features and highlights of this reimbursement scheme are as follows:-

Any victim of road accidents can avail free treatment in any govt. or private hospitals in the state.
All the expenses upto Rs. 50,000 of each of the accident victims in the first 48 hours in any hospital will be reimbursed by the state govt.
Along with Gujarat residents, people from other states and even from other countries facing accidents in Gujarat are also applicable for this scheme. Even there is no income criteria attached with this scheme.
The primary objective is to provide timely and best quality treatment to the victims in order to reduce the life risk as first 48 hours are crucial for accident victims.
This scheme will also change the intention of people to shift victims immediately in a govt. hospital which sometimes does not have the quality treatment facilities. Now, people can admit such victims directly into the nearby hospital (either private or govt.) with specialist doctors and other required facilities without caring about expenses.
Ambulance Operators will also be given directions to admit road accident victims in the best hospitals near the location of the place where accident took place.
Private hospitals will not charge upto Rs. 50,000 money for the first 48 hours from the accident victims instead they will get this amount reimbursed from the state govt.

Gujarat govt. is going to implement this scheme as soon as possible. In Gujarat, around 29,300 accidents take place every year out of which around 6,400 results in death of patients. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Providing best possible treatment in a timely manner will help in saving many lives. For this reason, govt. will provide instructions to the private hospitals to start giving free treatment and submit their bills with the officials for reimbursement.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
