


Table of Contents

GST Saheli Online Registration (Return Filing)GST Related Services – PackagesGST Saheli FeaturesMukhyamantri Gramodaya YojanaReferences
Gujarat govt. has launched GST Saheli Portal and Mukhyamantri Gramodaya Yojana to uplift the status of rural women. This will provide GST related services to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME), Industries, Sakhi Mandals, Cooperative groups and PSU’s through GST Sahayaks & Suvidha Kendras. Interested candidates can make online registration for invoicing, return filing at gstsaheli.co.in 
To make people understand the technicalities of GST in a much better way, Commissionerate of Urban Development has launched this initiative. Gujarat Livelihood Promotion Company (GLPC), which is a public sector undertaking owned by Gujarat govt. has started this web portal in Gujarati / Hindi / English language.
GST Saheli is an integrated GSP-ASP solution approved by Goods and Services Network (GSTN). This portal will provide GST Saheli will be a giant leap towards the women empowerment and self employment of youths. More than 1000 youths will get employment. The state govt. will also provide training to GST Sahayaks in 5 districts. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

GST Saheli Online Registration (Return Filing)
This initiative will also help in financial inclusion of women and youths under GST – One Nation One Tax System. The important features of GST Saheli comprises of Invoicing, Return Filing, Comprehensive Dashboard for ITC ledger and Challan Generation. The complete procedure to apply online has been specified below:-

Firstly visit the official website gstsaheli.co.in
On the homepage, click at the “Register” tab present in the header or directly click this link
Afterwards, the “GST Saheli User Enrollment Form” will appear as follows:-
GST Saheli User Registration Form
Fill all the details accurately and then click at the “Register” button at the bottom to complete the registration process.
Finally after registration, candidates can make Login through the “Sign In” option or directly at GST Saheli Login
This will enable the users to access their own dashboard and to access GST related services as mentioned below.

This autonomous software is efficient and simplifies the entire process of return filing along with managing multiple clients. It includes CA / CS Experts, Tax Consultant / Sahayak, MSME and GST Suvidha Kendra. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

GST Related Services – Packages
All the GST related services will be given to Micro and Small Industries, Sakhi Mandals, Cooperative Groups with less than Rs. 5 crore turnover at minimal cost of Rs. 1250 per annum while for other Industries, the rate is Rs. 1750 per annum. Even all the Government Public Sector Undertakings can avail these services at Rs. 3000 per annum.

For more details on the packages, please click the link – GST Services Packages
GST Saheli Packages

People can now easily prepare and file GSTR-3B, GSTR-1, GSTR-2 and GSTR-3 returns, raise invoices, identify any data mismatch, avoid unnecessary handling of JSON files and even import data to excel format. Chief Minister has felicitated five GST Saheli Sahayaks and presented the certificates to them. Moreover, CM has also felicitated the first woman entrepreneur who paid tax through GST Saheli web portal.
GST Saheli Features
This integrated GSP-ASP solution unlocks new employment opportunities. People can manage multiple clients on one single dashboard with GST Saheli Software. This software supports multiple languages (Gujarati / Hindi / English) to maintain business effectively. The important features of the GSP Application are as follows:-

To automate the Goods and Service Tax Regime.
Providing Support to the Informal sector and MSME.
Generating Employment Opportunities for the youths.
To empower MSME with an integrated, affordable software
GST Saheli GSP Ecosystem

This system will bridge the gap between GSTN and the taxpayers and is high on security and performance. GLPC aims to serve the underprivileged women and members of various vulnerable communities / groups in the entire state. This is done through organization and capacity building of groups to create sustainable livelihoods.
Mukhyamantri Gramodaya Yojana
Gujarat govt. has also launched Mukhyamantri Gramoday Yojana on the same day. Under this scheme, the state govt. will provide an interest subsidy up to 6% for the traditionally employed businessmen. Govt. is also planning to provide an additional interest subsidy of 2% to double the number of Sakhi Mandal groups in the state.
A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was also signed between the Self Help Groups (SHGs) and DRDO under the Mukhyamantri Gramoday Yojana. This initiative will encourage various small scale industries in the state.
References
— In case of any query, candidates can submit their complaints though the link – Contact Us





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
