
On the 58th Foundation Day of Gujarat, CM Vijay Rupani has launched Sujlam Suflam Jal Sanchay Abhiyan for water conservation. Gujarat govt. has started this campaign from the Ankleshwar Tehsil located in the Bharuch district. Under this abhiyan, govt. will create an additional capacity of 11000 lakh sq.ft of rain water storage in the next 1 month. Moreover, around 13,000 ponds and check dams will be deepened along with restoration of conventional water resources. 
Water is the essential resource for the holistic development of the state. Govt. now realizes this thing and is making consistent efforts towards water conservation. CM Vijay Rupani has himself run a JCB Machine to dig out soil for the construction of pond in Kosmadi village. 
Restoration of all the traditional water sources will give a boost to the economy of the state. Moreover, this abhiyan will also provide employment opportunities to the people to earn their livelihood.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Sujlam Suflam Jal Sanchay Abhiyan – Features
The important features and highlights of this water conservation campaign are as follows:-

Under this scheme, the target is to conserve the conventional water resources and to deepen around 13,000 ponds and check dams.
This abhiyan targets to create an additional 11,000 lakh sq. ft capacity of rain water storage.
For Sujlam Suflam Jal Sanchay Abhiyan, more than 4000 JCB Hitachi Machines will be used for soil excavation.
In addition to this, around 8000 more tractors and dumpers will also be used for this purpose.
All the fertile soil coming out as a result of the deepening of ponds and check-dams will be given to the general public without a single penny of royality.
The primary focus of this campaign is to revive 32 rivers having length of 340 km in 30 districts of Gujarat.
Even a small pond construction in kosmadi of around 27 hectares will resolve the water problem of around 25 villages.
Canals having length of approx. 5400 km and small water channels with around 580 km of length will be cleaned in this water conservation drive.
Furthermore, govt. will carry out around 10,750 water conservation and protection works under MNREGA Scheme.
Gujarat Sujalam Sufalam Jal Sanchay Abhiyan

CM also launched various other programmes like Kabirvad Development Project (approx. 40 crore), Mukhyamantri Apprentice Yojana to provide Rs. 4500 per month as stipend (approx. 300 crore) and subsidized PNG to BPL families.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});






(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
