


Table of Contents

Gujarat Vahli Dikri Yojna 2020 – Application / RegistrationGujarat Vahli Dikri Yojna 2020 – Amount BenefitsGujarat Vahli Dikri Yojana EligibilitySimilar Schemes like Vahli Dikari Yojana in Other States
Gujarat govt. is running Vahli Dikri Yojana 2020 (Dear Daughter Scheme) for girl children of the state. Under this Vahli Dikri Yojana, the state govt. will provide education incentives and Rs. 1 lakh to first and second daughters of family. This one lakh assistance amount would be provided when the girl attains the age of 18 years. People would be able to fill the Vhali Dikari Yojna registration / application form to avail assistance.
The state govt. of Gujarat has started Vhali Dikri Yojana 2020 in order to improve the sex ratio which currently stands at 883 girls per 1000 boys. The amount under Vahli Dikari Yojna would be provided for wedding or higher education.
In the recent Gujarat Budget 2019-20, the state govt. has allocated Rs. 133 crore for Vahli Dikri Yojana.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Gujarat Vahli Dikri Yojna 2020 – Application / Registration
Interested eligible candidates can visit the official website of Gujarat government for information about the application forms of Vahli Dikri Yojana. The direct link to download Gujarat Vahli Dikri Yojana 2020 application / registration form is given here – https://instapdf.in/vahli-dikri-yojana-application-form-gujarat/. The Gujarat Vahali Dikari Yojana online registration form will appear as shown below:-
Gujarat Vahli Dikri Yojana Application Form PDF
All the applicants can download this Gujarat Vahli Dikri Yojana application form in PDF format and can enter all the necessary details accurately. Upon entering all the details, applicants would be able to “Submit” it to the concerned authorities for further approval. After the Vahali Dikri Yojana registration form gets approved, applicants will start receiving the amount directly into their bank accounts. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Gujarat Vahli Dikri Yojna 2020 – Amount Benefits
The amount to 1st and 2nd daughters of family would be given in the following manner:
When Will Assistance be TransferredDetailsAmount under Vahli Dikri YojanaEnrollment in Class 1stEarly Intervention PartRs. 4,000Enrollment in Class 9thLate Intervention PartRs. 6,000Attaining 18 years of AgeWedding or Higher EducationRs. 1,00,000
Vahli Dikri Yojana is going to reduce the dropout rate of girls from education and would also prevent child marriage. As soon as the Vahali Dikri Yojana application / registration form are out, we will update it here.
Gujarat Vahli Dikri Yojana Eligibility
Gujarat Vahli Dikri Yojana is going to improve the birth rate of girls and will strengthen the socio-economic status of the girls in society. All the applicants must fulfill the following eligibility criteria to become eligible for Vahli Dikri Yojana:-
Applicant must be a permanent resident of Gujarat state.The girls must belong to a poor family with annual income of less than 2 years.
Gujarat Vahli Dikri Yojana
This is a first of its kind initiative in the state of Gujarat for daughters of poor families.
Gujarat Govt to launch ‘Vahli Dikri Yojana’ today – a big stride towards ensuring bright and promising future for the daughters of the state pic.twitter.com/s7eb9u8HeS— CMO Gujarat (@CMOGuj) August 2, 2019

Similar Schemes like Vahli Dikari Yojana in Other States
Various other states are implementing similar type of schemes for girls:-
Rajasthan – Raj Shree Yojana (2016)Maharashtra – Majhi Kanya Bhagyashree (2016)West Bengal – Kanyashree Prakalpa (2013)Haryana – Ladli Scheme (2015)Karnataka – Bhagyashree SchemeMadhya Pradesh – Ladli Laxmi Yojana (2006)
Vahali Dikari Yojana – An another initiative of the Gujarat Govt, ensuring necessary measures to support at all the stages of women’s life cycle pic.twitter.com/ImBxuiKLsv— CMO Gujarat (@CMOGuj) August 19, 2019

This scheme will prevent female foeticide, promote education of girls and provide a substantial sum to fund higher education and wedding of girls.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/vahli-dikri-yojana-launched-to-save-gujarats-daughters/articleshow/70051134.cms
SAVE AS PDF
