
गुजरात वोटर लिस्ट 2020 (PDF) अब सीईओ की आधिकारिक वेबसाइट ceo.gujarat.gov.in पर उपलब्ध है, नयी मतदाता सूची में अपना नाम अपनी जानकारी या EPIC नंबर के आधार पर खोजें और वोटर ID कार्ड डाउनलोड करें

Table of Contents

CEO Gujarat Voter List 2020 (PDF Electoral Roll) DownloadDownload Gujarat Voter ID Card Online – Find NameName Check in CEO Gujarat Voters List By NameFind Name in CEO Gujarat Voter List 2020 using EPIC Number / Voter ID Card with PhotoGujarat Elector Search Area Wise / District Wise / Assembly Constituency Wise
Election Commission of India had announced Lok Sabha election dates for voting across the country. In the Gujarat state, ECI had conducted elections on 26 Loksabha seats in Phase 3 and voting was on 23rd April 2019. Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) of Gujarat has published Gujarat CEO Voter List with Photo (voter slips) at ceo.gujarat.gov.in. Now citizens can download PDF Electoral Rolls / Voter ID Card. Voters can even search their name online in CEO Gujarat Voter List 2020 by name, EPIC number & district wise / area wise or assembly constituency wise. 
The updated Gujarat CEO Voter List 2020 (PDF Electoral Roll) is available online at the official website. People can also find their name online in the CEO Gujarat Voters List with Photo before casting their important vote. As the Lok Sabha elections are inching closer, CEO dept. is regularly updating its voters database. All those people who still don’t have voter card can now make registration and apply online at the nearest election office.
In addition to this, people can download the entire PDF file of the Electoral Roll and perform manual searching in the Gujarat Voter List 2019-2020. In addition to this, people can adopt a hassle free process and check their names online.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

CEO Gujarat Voter List 2020 (PDF Electoral Roll) Download
The complete procedure to search and download the PDF Electoral Roll / District-Wise CEO Voter List 2020 Gujarat is specified as follows:-

Firstly, visit the official website ceo.gujarat.gov.in
At the homepage, click at the “Electoral Rolls – 2020” tab present under ‘Other links’ section as shown below:-
Gujarat CEO Electoral Rolls PDF Download
Candidates can open PDF Electoral Download page through the link – CEO Gujarat Voter List 2020 PDF Download. On this page, candidates can select the district name, assembly constituency. The Gujarat CEO Voters List page will appear as shown below:-
Gujarat CEO Voters List ID Card Download
Here candidates can click at the “Show” option to open the PDF CEO Voter List Gujarat 2020 with Photo as shown below:-
Gujarat CEO Voter List With Photo PDF Download

People can download this Gujarat PDF electoral roll file and candidates can perform manual search to find their name online in the complete Gujarat CEO Voter List PDF with Photo.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Download Gujarat Voter ID Card Online – Find Name
Below is the complete procedure to find your name online in the CEO Gujarat Voter List 2020 and download the Voter ID Card. People can search their name in Gujarat Voter ID Card List online either by name or with their EPIC number through the link given below:-
Gujarat Name Find in List / Voter ID Card Download
Name Check in CEO Gujarat Voters List By Name
All the candidates can directly search their name in the Gujarat CEO Voter List (electoral roll) using their name through the link mentioned above which is described as shown below:-
CEO Gujarat Voter List Search by Name
Here candidates have to enter their district, first name, surname, father / husband name, age, sex, captcha and then hit at the “Search” button to find name online in the CEO Gujarat Voter List 2020. 
Find Name in CEO Gujarat Voter List 2020 using EPIC Number / Voter ID Card with Photo
People can search their name in the Gujarat Voter List through online mode using their Electoral Photo ID Card (EPIC) Number using the link given below:-
Name Search Gujarat CEO Voter List EPIC Number
Candidates can select their district, enter their EPIC Number / ID Card Number and click on the “Search button. Then all the details of the citizen will get displayed on the screen. Finally can download this file and take a printout of their Voter ID Card.
Gujarat Elector Search Area Wise / District Wise / Assembly Constituency Wise
All the citizens can even search elector details through areas wise, district wise and assembly constituency wise method through the link given below:-

http://erms.gujarat.gov.in/ceo-gujarat/master/Elector-Search-Dist-AC.aspx
The district wise / area wise / assembly constituency wise elector search page will appear as shown below:-
Gujarat Elector Search District Area Wise

Furthermore, all those people whose name does not appears in the list does not have to worry. They can make online enrollment for the Gujarat Voter List and can then download their Voter ID Card. For more details, visit the official website at https://ceo.gujarat.gov.in/Default





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: ceo.gujarat.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
