


Table of Contents

Objective of Mukhya Mantri GRUH YojanaMukhya Mantri GRUH Yojana for EWS CategoryMukhya Mantri GRUH Yojana for LIG CategoryScheme for Incentive to Private EWS and LIG HousingApplication Forms for Mukhya Mantri GRUH Yojana
Mukhya Mantri GRUH Yojana where GRUH stands for “Gujarat Rural Urban Housing” is an affordable housing scheme especially designed for home seekers belonging to EWS and LIG category of the society. Mukhya Mantri (Gujarat Rural Urban Housing) GRUH Yojana was announced during 12th Five-year plan in consideration of growing need for affordable houses in urban areas.
Objective of Mukhya Mantri GRUH Yojana
The main objective of the scheme is to rehabilitate slums in urban areas of the State by the year 2018. The government is committed to provide affordable housing to EWS (Economically Weaker Section) and LIG (Lower Income Group) across the state.
Mukhya Mantri GRUH Yojana for EWS Category
Under the Mukhya Mantri GRUH Yojana, the Gujarat government will provide pucca house to every slum dwelling family and family belonging to economically weaker sections. The minimum carpet area of houses for economically weaker sections will be 25 sq. meters and maximum will be up to 30 sq. meters which will include two rooms, kitchen, bathroom and toilet.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Existing slums in metropolitan, municipal and development authority areas will be rehabilitated by constructing houses in the same place (in situ). Slums which cannot be rehabilitated in the same place will be relocated on government/ULC/ULB/GHB land.
Eligibility/Selection Criteria of EWS Beneficiaries


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


The beneficiaries under the GRUH Yojana will be selected on the basis of any two of the four criteria which includes electricity bill, voter ID card, slum survey or ration card.
Allotment of EWS houses under this program will be made to the beneficiaries whose annual family income is less than Rs. 1,00,000/-
No family member should have either plot or house in that city and applicant should be adult
on the date of application.
The beneficiaries of slum rehabilitation should be living in slums on or before the Cut- off date of 1/12/2010.
Allotment of the houses will be done through the computerized lottery draw.
Registration of Houses will be done on hundred rupees stamp paper.
All the allotted houses should be registered jointly in the name of husband and wife and wife will have first right.

Financial Assistance
Slum rehabilitation schemes approved by the Central Government will be financed by the Central Government, State Government, local urban bodies and beneficiaries as follows.
Central Government – 50% of the project cost
State Government and Urban local bodies – 38%
Beneficiary contribution – 12% (Beneficiary will contribute Rs. 35,000/- (thirty five thousand) or 12%
of cost of house whichever is more.)
Loan facility will be provided to the eligible beneficiary by the implementing agency. Allottee beneficiary will not be permitted to sell or let out allotted house for 15 years. In case of breach of this condition allotment of house may be cancelled by implementing agency. The ownership of land will remain with urban local bodies.
How to apply
Applications from potential beneficiaries will be collected before beginning project. Housing projects will be built under self-financed scheme. Deposit to be made along with application is Rs. 7,500/- (Rupees seven thousand five
hundred only) for EWS, category.
Mukhya Mantri GRUH Yojana for LIG Category
The state government will encourage and help affordable housing projects for people in lower income group (LIG) to meet the growing need for affordable houses in urban areas.
The minimum carpet area of houses for people in lower income group will be 31 sq. mtrs and maximum will be up to 50 sq. mtrs which will include one bedroom, hall, kitchen, bathroom and toilet.
Eligibility/Selection Criteria of LIG Beneficiaries

The selection of LIG beneficiaries under the scheme will be made on the basis on income. The annual family income of the LIG candidates should fall between Rs. 1,00,000/- to Rs. 2,50,000/-
No family member should have either plot or house in that city and applicant should be adult
on the date of application.
Allotment of the houses will be done through the transparent computerized lottery draw.
Registration of all the beneficiaries with UIDAI (Unique Identification Authority of India) shall be mandatory. Municipal Corporations and Municipalities will carry out this activity.
All the allotted houses should be registered jointly in the name of husband and wife and wife will have first right. Concessions in stamp duty will be as per prevailing norms.

Financial Assistance
Under this scheme, amount payable by beneficiary, shall be amount remaining after deduction of subsidy per unit of house or Rs. 7.50 lakh (Rupees Seven Lakh and Fifty Thousand only) to Rs. 11 lakh (Rupees Eleven Lakh only) whichever is less. Implementing agency will coordinate with bank to facilitate loan for beneficiaries.
Allottee beneficiary will not be permitted to sell or let out allotted house for 7 years.
How to apply
Applications from potential beneficiaries will be collected before beginning project. Housing projects will be built under self-financed scheme. Deposit to be made along with application is Rs. 20,000/-(Rupees twenty thousand only) for LIG, category.
Under this scheme one person can submit only one form for single project. However, for different projects separate applications can be made and on being successful in draw in more than one scheme then he will be entitled to get, allotment only in one of the scheme.
Scheme for Incentive to Private EWS and LIG Housing
The state government will also provide interest subsidy to the EWS and LIG applicants on home loan to make the homes even more affordable and easy to buy.
Eligible Beneficiaries purchasing houses under private affordable EWS / LIG housing schemes will be eligible for this subsidy. Banks, Private developers and implementing agency will jointly select beneficiaries.
Under this scheme, the beneficiaries of EWS and LIG category will have to make a minimum down payment
of Rs.50,000/- and Rs. 1,00,000/- respectively.
The scheme will be run under the Urban Development and Urban Housing Department. The complete details in the PDF format about the scheme can be obtained from here.
Application Forms for Mukhya Mantri GRUH Yojana
The sample application forms for the GRUH yojana housing scheme can be downloaded from below link
https://vmc.gov.in/gruhyojna.aspx
More information Website: www.udd.gujarat.gov.in





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
