
Gujarat govt. has launched Electricity Bill Waiver Scheme to waive off the electricity dues of rural users. Under Bijli Bill Mafi Yojana in Gujarat, people living in rural areas can get back their electricity connections by paying just Rs. 500. This energy bill waiver will benefit around 6 lakh poor people. For the successful implementation of this one time settlement (OTS) scheme, govt. has allocated Rs. 625 crore. 
All those consumers whose power connections were cut-off due to power theft or non-payment of bills can now avail Bijli Bill Mafi Yojana benefits. This Energy Bill Waiver Scheme will remain effective till the end of February 2019. 
The announcement of Electricity Bill Waiver Scheme comes a day just after the newly formed Congress govts have announced MP Kisan Karj Mafi Yojna & Chhattisgarh Farm Loan Waiver Scheme.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Gujarat Electricity Bill Waiver Scheme (Bijli Bill Mafi Yojana)
The state govt. of Gujarat announces a complete waiver of Rs. 625 crore in unpaid electricity bills under Electricity Bill Waiver Scheme. This OTS scheme is going to benefit 6 lakh people living in rural parts of the state. Gujarat Bijli Bill Mafi Yojana will also benefit those people who had been booked for electricity theft and accordingly, lost their electricity connections. 
Under energy bill waiver scheme, irrespective of the due amount (including principal amount & interest), people living in rural areas can regain their electricity connections by making payment of Rs. 500. This electricity bill waiver scheme is applicable to all the rural users either agriculture or household or commercial consumers. These consumers will not have to pay the outstanding dues for power connections as govt. has waived the entire bill amount.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Electricity Bill Waiver Scheme in Gujarat is going to benefit the poor people, farmers and middle class citizens living in rural areas. 

In the interest of poor power consumers, the Govt of Gujarat announces the waiver of Rs.625-crore pending electricity bills of around 6.22 lakh power connections in rural areas of the state pic.twitter.com/sfAqM5LD6u
— Office of Vijay Rupani (@CMO_Gujarat) December 18, 2018

This is an aftermath of MP Farm Loan Waiver Scheme by Kamal Nath in which he waived off farm loans upto Rs. 2 lakh of farmers and Chhattisgarh Kisan Karj Mafi Yojana by Bhupesh Baghel in which govt. waived off short term agricultural crop loans of farmers. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
