
The state government of Gujarat has launched “NAMO” or “New Avenues of Modern Education through Tablets” for college students. The aim of the scheme is to distribute e-TAB tablets to around 3.5 lakh college students at a cost of Rs. 1,000 per tablet. Under the scheme, the government will provide 7-inch NAMO e-TAB for the first year college students. The actual price of tablet is Rs. 8,000 in the market but the Gujarat government is providing tablets at only Rs. 1000 to the students, rest amount will be paid by the state govt. as subsidy.
NAMO tablet will provide all facilities like voice-calling, front / back camera, study material etc. For this scheme, the State government has sanctioned Rs. 200 crore in the budget. The government has shortlisted two companies named Acer and Lenovo for the manufacturing of the tablets. So far, 154960 students have registered for the tablets.
NAMO Tablet e-TAB for Students
The main objective of the NAMO tablet scheme is to provide tablets to the students belonging to poor and middle section of the society. It will strengthen the hands of students and help them concentrate on their studies.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The tablet is being provided to those students who has passed class 12th and secured college admission. The motive of the scheme is to help the students with technological tools to access the internet for educational purposes.
This scheme is a part of the Mukhyamanti Swavlamban Yojana and the interested and eligible students can apply for the tablets under the scheme.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Interested student have to apply for tablets in their respective college at the time of admission. The students have to pay Rs. 1000 in college as the cost of the tablet. The college authority will maintain the record of applications for the tablets. After completing the all procedure, the college authority has to coordinate with the concerned department of Govt. of Gujarat for the distribution of tablets to the students.
The state government department will provide the NAMO e-TAB for the applied students to the college. This tablet will help the students in a great way in acquiring knowledge at global level.
To get more detail about the scheme, visit on the official website at https://sje.gujarat.gov.in.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
