
Gujarat govt. has launched Seva Setu Programme Phase 4 across the state. Under this Seva Setu Yojna, govt. will reach out to its citizens at their doorstep and ensure timely redressal of their problems, requirements and queries in a smooth and citizen-friendly ways. The previous 3 phases of Seva Setu drive was a huge success in which more than 1 crore issues have been provided with solutions. Seva Setu Program Phase IV begins from 24 August 2018.
Addressing problems and concerns of people is a major issues and the state govt. taken various initiatives to resolve these queries. Several Programmes such as Lok Darbar, Swagat, Swagat Online, Apno Taluko Vibrant Taluko, Seva Setu, Jan Seva Kendra, Garib Kalyan Mela are serving as major initiatives towards good governance.
Seva Setu Program has benefited over 33.76 lakh citizens and enables them to take benefits of the programme in 118 days (From November 5, 2016 to February 28, 2017). Out of the total 33.76 lakh beneficiaries, 27, 28,904 beneficiaries are from rural areas of the state.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Seva Setu Programme Phase 4 in Gujarat – List of Services
Gujarat govt. has announced the State wide commencement of 4th Phase of Seva Setu Programme. This decision will ensure good governance on the basis of 4 pillars – transparency, sensibility, decisiveness and progressiveness. Camps will organized in each taluka to provide on the spot services and fast delivery to people. List of various govt. services is given below:-


Income certificate
Caste certificate


Aadhar card
Ration card


Creamy-layer certificate for OBC
Widow assistance


Land survey
Mukhyamantri Amrutam card


MA Vatsalya card
Janani Shishu Suraksha Karyakram (JSSK)


Janani Suraksha Yojana (JSY)
Samekit Bal Vikas Yojana (SBVY)


To provide resolution of several issues at village level and to spare them to make visits to taluka or district headquaters, govt. has started 4th phase of Seva Setu Programme. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Gujarat Seva Setu Program Phase 4 – Projects
“Seva” Means “Help” and “Setu” means “Bridge”. Seva Setu will serve as an enabler, facilitator and bridge the gap between the provider (state / central govt. / NGOs) of schemes and the desired beneficiary (poor and needy people).
4th Phase Seva Setu Program Gujarat
To ensure transfer of benefits to people, govt. will provide last mile connectivity to people with the help of local state machinery. Various programs are bridging gaps in delivery mechanisms:-

Aam Sabhas – These are regular campaigns conducted by Seva Setu field team in villages with the aim to gather information about key issues faced by the villagers, especially in availing the facilities of various welfare & development schemes meant for them. Awareness Campaign and Group Activities are conducted.
Citizen Care – The Citizen Care service is built on telephone facility managed by “Seva Setu” team. Here people can place a call to seek support and guidance to avail government scheme benefits/ services/ information. Telephone based assistance service for prospective beneficiaries under various state & central government schemes will be provided.
Mother Care – This is a Telephone based reminder service for pregnant & lactating women. All the essential information on ante-natal, post-natal check-ups, immunizations, intake of IFA tablets is given to women. This is a simple web-based tool which reminds women of all the essential ante-natal & post-natal activities through weekly phone calls and SMSes.
Child Care – The primary objective of this program is check nutrition (from malnutrition perspective) status of children below 2 years of age. 1st phase is to detect that if the child is malnourished or severely acute malnourished (SAM). This is done on the basis of growth charts, weight & Mid Upper Arm Circumference tape. The 2nd stage involves arranging rehabilitation of SAM children at nearest Nutrition Rehabilitation Centers (NRCs).
Meri Kahani Meri Zubani – This includes true tales of struggle, sorrow, success, failure from villages. This will spread awareness, ignite a sense of responsibility for social cause and to spread hope.
Pahel – Collaborative work with the administrations of various districts in implementing various programs.

The state govt. wants that every Indian must assert his / her fundamental rights and be able to avail the benefits of government schemes that guarantee these rights.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
