


Table of Contents

Gujarat Ration Card List 2019-2020 Village Wise & Find NameCheck Gujarat Ration Card (APL / BPL / NFSA / Non-NFSA) Online Status1. Add Name in Ration Card Online Gujarat – APL / BPL / NFSA / Non-NFSA2. Application for Duplicate / Separate Ration Card GujaratWhat is the Eligibility Criteria for Gujarat Ration CardList of Documents Required for New Ration Card in GujaratAn Overview of Gujarat Ration CardRation Card Helpline Number Gujarat
Directorate of Food & Civil Supplies of Gujarat is inviting Gujarat Ration Card Online Application Form 2019-2020. Now APL / BPL / NFSA / Non-NFSA category people can apply online for New, Separate, Duplicate Ration Card to get subsidized ration at PDS shops. Candidates can check fcs gujarat ration card online status and area wise ration card details to download and find their name in the village wise ration card list at digitalgujarat.gov.in 
All the citizens who have made fresh registration for the Ration Card can now check their name in Eligible List (Village Wise) of National Food Security Act (NFSA) and Non-NFSA category. All the Candidates whose name does not appears in Ration Card New List 2020 and wants to apply for new Ration Card can apply in the prescribed format for inclusion of their name.
Even the candidates can apply for addition / removal of name online or any other change in the ration card. Ration Card is an essential document for all poor people including APL / BPL / NFSA / Non-NFSA to take benefits of most govt. schemes. Most importantly, people can purchase Ration at subsidized rates from Ration Shops located nearby.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Gujarat Ration Card List 2019-2020 Village Wise & Find Name
Candidates can now check Areas Wise Ration Card Details as per NFSA. Now candidates can check name in the Gujarat Ration Card List Village Wise using the link given below:-

Visit the official website at dcs-dof.gujarat.gov.in
Gujarat Ration Card List Status Homepage
At the homepage, click at the “વિસ્તાર મુજબની રેશન કાર્ડ વિગતો-એન.એફ.એસ.એ.” link or directly click this link
Then the area wise ration card details of NFSA beneficiaries will appear as shown below:-
Download Gujarat Ration Card List Village Wise
Alternate Link to Check Gujarat Ration Card List 2020 – https://fcsca.gujarat.gov.in/

Also check the India Final BPL List based on the socio-economic caste census data to find out whether your name is present in the final BPL list of the country.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Check Gujarat Ration Card (APL / BPL / NFSA / Non-NFSA) Online Status
Candidates can check the Ration Card Online Status online by the following method:- 

Visit the website dcs-dof.gujarat.gov.in
Click at the “તમને મળવાપાત્ર જથ્થો જાણો” link present under ration card section.
The direct link to know your entitlement of ration card is given below:-
http://ipds.gujarat.gov.in/Register/frm_KnowYourEntitlement.aspx

Afterwards, the Gujarat Ration Card application status page will appear as shown below:-
Check Gujarat Ration Card Online Status
It is important to note that the application is currently offline.

Gujarat govt. will issue new Ration cards for all the citizens whether BPL or APL candidates. Accordingly, it is necessary to get ration through the Ration distributors at several ration shops. Furthermore, all the residents can check their name in the Gujarat Ration Card List at the official website of Food and Civil Supplies Department of Gujarat.
FCS Gujarat New Ration Card Online Apply (Application Form)
Below is the complete procedure for APL / BPL / NFSA / Non-NFSA beneficiaries to apply online for new ration card in Gujarat:- 

Step 1 – Visit the official website digitalgujarat.gov.in
Step 2 – At the homepage, click at the “Services” link in the header and then click at the “Citizen Services” link.
Step 3 – Here Click on “Application for New Ration Card” link. In the new opened page, see the Instructions and the List of documents to be attached which includes Residence Proof Attachment, Identity Proof Attachment and Proof Needed In Service Attachment.
Step 4 – Then Click “Apply Online” button at the bottom. A new window will open as below:-
FCS Gujarat Ration Card Process Login
Step 5 – Here registered users can directly make Login using their E-mail ID and Password. For New Ration Card Online Registration click on “Click for New Registration” link. Then the Gujarat Ration Card online Application Form will appear as follows:-
Gujarat Ration Card Online Registration Form
Step 6 – Fill all the details and submit the completed application form to complete the online application process.
Gujarat Ration Card Online Application Form

On Digital Gujarat Portal, candidates can apply online, store personal records / documents in Digital Locker pay online, track application status. Candidates can also download the Ration Card offline using link – Gujarat Ration Card Application Form Download
1. Add Name in Ration Card Online Gujarat – APL / BPL / NFSA / Non-NFSA
All the APL / BPL / NFSA / Non-NFSA beneficiaries can follow the process given below to add name in ration card online:-

For adding name in Ration Card follow the Step 1 and Step 2 a mentioned above.
 In Step 3, click at the “Add Name in Ration Card Online” instead of “Application for New Ration Card” link.
Add Name Ration Card Online Gujarat
After that follow the similar step from Step 4 to Step 6 to add name in Gujarat ration card online.

Removal of Name from Ration Card / Change in Ration Card – Similar to the above mentioned process, candidates can also apply online for removal of name from ration card. Even, they can apply online for Change in Ration Card.
2. Application for Duplicate / Separate Ration Card Gujarat
Candidates can follow the process given below to fill online application for duplicate / separate ration card:-

To apply online for Duplicate / Separate Ration Card follow the Step 1 and Step 2 as mentioned above.
 In Step 3, click at the “Application for Duplicate / Separate Ration Card” instead of “Application for New Ration Card” link.
After that follow the similar step from Step 4 to Step 6 to apply online for separate ration card online.

Application Fees
There is no application form filling fee and there is no requirement to pay any fees while applying online for new ration card in Gujarat. However, applicants can collect their ration cards from the concerned authorities on making a payment of Rs. 5 per copy.
Timelines for Issuing Ration Card in Gujarat
All the applicants can submit the complete Gujarat Ration Card online application form and new ration cards would be issued within 15 days of submission of application. However in certain cases, 1 month time is required to issue a new ration card.
Linking of Aadhaar Card with Ration Card
People can now link their Unique Identification Number or Aadhaar Card with their ration card. This can be done online by visiting the official portal and then clicking at the “Link to UID” link.
What is the Eligibility Criteria for Gujarat Ration Card
All the applicants must meet the basic eligibility criteria to get a new ration card in Gujarat:-
a) Applicants who are permanent resident of Gujarat can apply.
b) Households not already having ration card in the state are eligible.
c) Newly married couples can apply for new ration card.
d) Citizens having temporary ration cards whose date has been expired are eligible.
It is important to note that the issue of new ration card in Gujarat would be based on the household income as well as economic conditions of the family.
List of Documents Required for New Ration Card in Gujarat
Below is the complete list of documents required to apply online for new ration card in Gujarat:-

Residential proof such as Voter ID, Driving License, Aadhaar Card (Scanned Copy)
Age Certificate (Scanned Copy)
Caste Certificate (Scanned Copy)
Identity Proof like Voter ID, PAN Card, Driving Licence, Aadhar Card (Scanned Copy)
Income proof of the family (Scanned Copy)
Recent Passport Size Photograph of the applicant
Valid Mobile Number / E-mail ID
Previous Electricity Bills
Bank Passbook
Gas Connection Details
Self Declaration and Certificate issued by Ward Councillor/ Pradhan
Tenancy Agreement (if applicable)

In case of non-possession of above mentioned documents, applications for new ration cards are liable to get rejected. 
An Overview of Gujarat Ration Card
Here is an overview of Gujarat Ration Card which is mentioned in the table below:-


Service Type
Ration Card


State Name
Gujarat


Article Category
List / Status / Application Form


Concerned Department
Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department, Govt. of Gujarat


Applicable Year
2020


Mode of Checking Status / List / Application
Online


Official Portal
https://dcs-dof.gujarat.gov.in/


Ration Card Helpline Number Gujarat
People can now contact the Food, Civil Supplies & Consumer Affairs Department Gujarat through:-
— Helpline number: 1967
— Toll free number: 1800-233-5500
— Official website: https://dcs-dof.gujarat.gov.in/ or https://fcsca.gujarat.gov.in/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://dcs-dof.gujarat.gov.in/, https://fcsca.gujarat.gov.in/, http://digitalgujarat.gov.in/
SAVE AS PDF
