
Karnataka govt. has now released the CM 1 Lakh Houses Selection Letter under the Bengaluru Housing Scheme. Subsequently, all the candidates who have earlier applied for Karnataka CM 1 Lakh Bengaluru Housing Scheme can download selection letters. Accordingly, CM one lakh houses selection letters are now available at ashraya.kar.nic.in
This One Lakh Housing Scheme is a major initiative of Siddharamaih govt. to provide affordable houses to poor people. Moreover, the state govt. will also provide subsidy of Rs. 2.70 lakh to Rs. 3.50 lakh for houses.
Karnataka govt. has also released the City Wise List of Residential Performance Beneficiaries for both Rural and Urban Areas. Interested candidates can download city wise list and check their names to avail benefits.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Download Karnataka CM 1 Lakh Houses Selection Letter
Below is the complete procedure to download CM 1 Lakh Houses Selection Letter:-

Firstly, candidates can visit the official website http://164.100.133.123/ (ashraya.kar.nic.in)
On the homepage, click the “ಮುಖ್ಯಮಂತ್ರಿಗಳ ಒಂದು ಲಕ್ಷ ಬಹುಮಹಡಿ ಬೆಂಗಳೂರು ವಸತಿ ಯೋಜನೆಯ ಆಯ್ಕೆ ಪತ್ರವನ್ನು ಡೌನ್ ಲೋಡ್ ಮಾಡಿ” link under “ಮುಖ್ಯಮಂತ್ರಿಗಳ ಒಂದು ಲಕ್ಷ ವಸತಿ ಯೋಜನೆ ಅರ್ಜಿ – ಬೆಂಗಳೂರು” section or directly click CM 1 Lakh Houses Selection Letter
Afterwards, CM One Lakh Houses Selection Letter window will appear as shown below:-
CM 1 Lakh Housing Scheme Selection Letter
Here candidates have to enter their applicant id and then click at the view option to check their allotment status under Bengaluru Housing Scheme.
Finally candidates can download the selection letter in PDF Format to avail new house under CM One Lakh Housing Scheme.

Now all the selected candidates who possess these selection letters will be given the date and time of moving in to their new homes. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Housing Schemes Achievement (Beneficiary Wise)
Karnataka govt. has released the list of selected beneficiaries (city wise) to showcase its pro-poor behaviour. Now, the state govt. has presented its Housing Scheme achievement (Rural and Urban) in lieu of the upcoming elections. People can see the “ವಸತಿ ಯೋಜನೆ ಸಾಧನೆ ಫಲಾನುಭವಿವಾರು (ನಗರ)” using the link given below:-
Residential Planning Performance Beneficiary (City Wise) – Urban
Residential Planning Performance Beneficiary (City Wise) – Rural





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
