
After the official launch of Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana by PM Modi at Ranchi (Jharkhand), Karanataka govt. will launch PMJAY scheme in integration with Arogya Karnataka Yojana. Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust will be the implementing agency for Ayushman Bharat Yojana in Karnataka to provide cashless treatment upto Rs. 5 lakh to BPL families and upto Rs. 1.5 lakh for APL families. Ayushman Bharat – Arogya Karnataka Health Scheme (integrated) will cover 1628 treatment procedures. 
Cabinet committee has decided to integrate Ayushman Bharat Yojana & Arogya Karnataka Yojana in the state and an MoU has been sent to the central govt. for approval. PMJAY-Arogya Karnataka will be implemented with budgetary allocation of approx. Rs. 1000 crore. 
Latest Update – Check PM Jan Arogya Yojana Hospitals List to find Ayushman Bharat empanelled hospitals.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

There would be no limit on age and income and the eligibility criteria would be based on deprivation rather than caste or religion. This Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) in Karnataka would benefit around 1.34 crore families in the state.
Ayushman Bharat – Arogya Karnataka Health Scheme (PM-JAY)
Karnataka cabinet has decided to implement integrated Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka Yojana in the state. Arogya Karnataka scheme has 1,516 procedures and Ayushman Bharat – National Health Protection Mission (AB-NHPM) has 1,349 procedures. By integration of these 2 schemes, the total number of procedures would become 1,628. The important features and highlights of this AB-Arogya Karnataka Yojana are as follows:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Financial assistance for BPL families – For BPL beneficiaries, the financial assistance under Arogya Karnataka was Rs. 2 lakh p.a. This amount has now been increased from Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh per family per year under Ayushman Bharat – Arogya Karnataka integrated health scheme.
Financial assistance for APL families – For APL beneficiaries, the financial assistance would still remain Rs. 1.5 lakh per family per annum. In case of emergency tertiary treatment, if a family member is suffering from acute illness then an additional amount of Rs. 50,000 would be given. For APL / General families who are not covered under NFSA 2013, financial assistance of 30% would be given.
Budgetary Allocation – Ayushman Bharat – Arogya Karnataka is estimated to cost Rs. 1,000 crore. In this cost, the central govt. will bear Rs. 286 crore while the remaining amount 714 crore would be borne by the state government.
Type of care covered – AB-Arogya Karnataka Yojana will cover beneficiaries for specified secondary care, emergency care, complex secondary care and tertiary care. 
PM Jan Arogya Yojana PMJAY Karnataka

Ayushman Bharat Yojana covers all the people whose name appears in Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC) data 2011. This yojana entitle people to avail cashless and paperless treatment of Rs. 5 lakh for secondary and tertiary hospitalization.
No. of Beneficiaries under Arogya Karnataka – PM Jan Arogya Yojana
In Karnataka, there are around 62 lakh families which are identified from SECC-2011 data under Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana (RSBY), govt. will provide 60% of expenditure and 40% will be borne by the state government. Under Arogya Karnataka Yojana, the state govt. is already providing health care to 1.15 crore BPL families and 19 lakh APL families totalling to 1.34 crore families. Any person can check their name in PMJAY beneficiary list through the link given below:-
Check Your Name in PMJAY Final Beneficiaries List 
Under Ayushman Bharat – Arogya Karnataka Health Scheme, central govt. will bear 60% of expenditure for 62 lakh RSBY families and 40% would be borne by the state government. For remaining 72 lakh families, the state govt. will bear 100% of the total expenditure incurred. People can visit the official website pmjay.gov.in for any further information on PM Jan-Arogya Yojana.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
