


Table of Contents

Karnataka Saptapadi Vivah Yojana 2020 Assistance AmountKarnataka Sapthapadi Vivah Yojana Eligibility CriteriaKarnataka Saptapadi Vivah Yojana RegistrationCheck Mass Marriage New Dates
Karnataka government has launched Sapthapadi Vivah Yojana on 10 January 2020. Under this Mass Marriage Scheme, the state govt. will provide Rs. 55,000 to newly wed couples. For this assistance, the candidates will have to make Karnataka Saptapadi Vivah Yojana 2020 registration at the temples. So, check the complete details of this Mass Wedding Scheme launched by CM B.S. Yediyurappa. 
Chief Minister of Karnataka has released the logo and pamphlets of the ‘Saptapadi’ mass wedding ceremony. The answers to question such as how to avail Saptapadi Vivah Yojana 2020 assistance, how & where to make registration and what is the eligibility criteria is given in this post. Moreover, the state govt. has announced dates for twice postponed mass marriage which will be held at Grade A temples coming under Religious Endowment Department.
All those couples who are going to be married in the next few days can avail benefits of Sapthapadi Vivah Yojana. The plan is to conduct about 1,000 marriages in 90-100 temples.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Karnataka Saptapadi Vivah Yojana 2020 Assistance Amount
In this section, we will describe the amount of assistance which a couple would receive on their marriage under Karnataka New Mass Wedding Scheme:-

Mangalsutra worth Rs. 40,000 for bride.
Rs. 5,000 in Cash to Groom
Rs. 10,000 in Cash to Bride
Total Assistance Amount (Rs. 55000) – The total assistance amount for both bride and groom would stand at Rs. 55,000 under Karnataka Saptapadi Vivah Yojana 2020.

Karnataka Sapthapadi Vivah Yojana Eligibility Criteria
All the applicants must fulfill the following eligibility criteria to avail assistance amount under Karnataka Sapthapadi Vivah Yojana 2020:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Applicants must be a permanent resident of Karnataka state.
Only those mass marriages which are scheduled to take place at shortlisted temples are eligible.
Both the Parents of the couple should attend the ceremony if duo wants to avail assistance.
In case the applicants wants to marry without their parents permission, then those couples are NOT eligible.
Also, those wanting a love marriage are NOT eligible and will not be able to reap the benefits of the scheme.

Karnataka Saptapadi Vivah Yojana Registration
All those couples who wants to tie the knot are expected to register themselves 30 days before the scheduled date of marriage in the temple. Afterwards, a list of all the eligible couples will be prepared. Then all the applicants will have to perform marriage in the Mass Marriage Ceremony. At the mass wedding event, the state govt. will provide this assistance under Saptapadi Vivah Yojana 2020. 

ಮುಖ್ಯಮಂತ್ರಿ ಶ್ರೀ @BSYBJP ಅವರು 'ಸಪ್ತಪದಿ' ಸಾಮೂಹಿಕ ವಿವಾಹ ಕಾರ್ಯಕ್ರಮದ ಲೋಗೋ ಹಾಗೂ ಕರಪತ್ರಗಳನ್ನು ಬಿಡುಗಡೆ ಮಾಡಿದರು.
ಮುಜರಾಯಿ ಸಚಿವ ಕೋಟ ಶ್ರೀನಿವಾಸ ಪೂಜಾರಿ, ಕಂದಾಯ ಇಲಾಖೆ ಕಾರ್ಯದರ್ಶಿ ಅನಿಲ್ ಕುಮಾರ್, ಮುಜರಾಯಿ ಇಲಾಖೆ ಆಯುಕ್ತರಾದ ರೋಹಿಣಿ ಸಿಂಧೂರಿ ಮೊದಲಾದವರು ಉಪಸ್ಥಿತರಿದ್ದರು. pic.twitter.com/pzCsCsxztd
— CM of Karnataka (@CMofKarnataka) January 10, 2020
 
Check Mass Marriage New Dates
The mass marriage ceremony which has been slated to be held on 26 April and 24 May was postponed due to COVID-19 lockdown. Now the mass marriage ceremony will take place on the following dates:-

23 July 2020
26 July 2020
29 July 2020
6 August 2020
10 August 2020
14 August 2020
17 August 2020

Previously, govt. had received over 4,000 applications but due to lockdown, these marriages have been performed in a low key manner. Now the state govt. has again invited applications from couples wanting to tie knot. Muzrai department through temples will provide 8 gram gold “Mangalya” to the bride while groom will get dhoti, shirt and shalya. A sum of Rs. 55000 will be given to the temples to buy things required for marriage ceremony. 
Karnataka state government has also informed that the department has shortlisted some temples where the mass marriages will be held. CM B.S. Yediyurappa also confirmed that the government will help communities like Muslim and Christians to organize mass marriage as per their respective rituals.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://www.newindianexpress.com/states/karnataka/2020/jan/10/cm-yediyurappa-launches-mass-marriage-programme-in-bengaluru-2087811.html
SAVE AS PDF
