
Karnataka govt. is going to launch Poushtika Karnataka Yojana which will implement Centre’s Poshan Abhiyan Programme. This scheme will converge multiple schemes for women and children and will be implemented in 11 districts in the 1st phase. The primary focus would be on ensuring proper nutrition to women and children and to reduce malnutrition, stunting, under-nutrition, anaemia, low birth weight and other growth related problems.
Ministry of Women and Child Development has launched this Poushtika Karnataka Yojana on 24 September 2018. The primary objective is to provide strategic intervention in child and women welfare. Most of the children and women belonging to remote rural areas will get benefited from this scheme.
The state govt. will ensure proper nutrition to realize the vision of “Kuposhan Mukt Bharat”. Also better monitoring, supervision, target fixing, issuance of alerts for timely actions and guidance of nutrition related interventions across ministries will be ensured. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Poushtika Karnataka Yojana under Poshan Abhiyan (National Nutrition Mission)
The state govt. of Karnataka will launch Poushtika Karnataka Yojana under National Nutrition Mission (Poshan Abhiyan) of the central government. Malnutrition and stunted growth always remain a concern among children where 46% of women in Karnataka were anaemic. The main aim of this programme was to provide strategic intervention in children and women welfare. This programme will cover various schemes which includes:-

Integrated Child Development Services (anganwadis)
Mathrupoorna (one full meal programme)
Srushti scheme (providing eggs to children)
Ksheera Bhagya (milk)
Janani Suraksha Yojana
Janani Shishu Suraksha Karyakram

Poushtika Karnataka programme also see inter-departmental collaboration between the State Women and Child Development, Health and Family Welfare and Rural Development and Panchayat Raj. For real-time monitoring, a mobile application named SNEHA will be used where anganwadi workers can fill information related to ICDS services and its impact on nutrition outcomes. Officials will monitor the complete data through central dashboard.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

This initiative will create awareness about nutrition among children, adolescent girls, pregnant women, and lactating mothers. Various community workshops will also be organized to ensure better reach of the Poushtika Karnataka Yojana. Flip books, posters on health and nutrition will be disbursed among people in each district.
In the first phase, the programme will be implemented in the following districts – Belagavi, Chamarajanagar, Chickballapur, Dharwad, Gadak, Kodagu, Kolar, Raichur, Shivamogga and Uttar Kannada districts. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
