
कर्नाटक वोटर लिस्ट 2020 (PDF) अब सीईओ की आधिकारिक वेबसाइट ceokarnataka.kar.nic.in पर उपलब्ध है, नयी मतदाता सूची में अपना नाम अपनी जानकारी या EPIC नंबर के आधार पर खोजें और वोटर ID कार्ड डाउनलोड करेंElection Commission is going to conduct Lok Sabha Elections and has already announced the LS election dates. Voting for LS Chunav in the state was held in 2 phase i.e phase 2 (voting on 18th April 2019) & phase 3 (Voting on 23 April 2019). The citizens of Karnataka state can check their name in the district wise CEO Karnataka Voters List 2020 with Photo and download Voter ID Card. The district wise Photo Electoral Rolls are available in the PDF format at ceokarnataka.kar.nic.in. 
Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) of Karnataka has published the updated final voter list (electoral roll) prior to elections. Accordingly, people can now find their name in the CEO Karnataka Voter List 2020 and can Download Voter ID Card before casting their vote. 
People can now download the entire PDF file of the Electoral Roll (Voter List) and perform manual searching in the Voter List 2020. Moreover, people can adopt a hassle free process and check their names online. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

CEO Karnataka Voter List 2020 (Electoral Roll) Download
The complete procedure to search and download the District-Wise CEO Karnataka Voters List 2019-2020 (Final Electoral Roll) has been specified as follows:-

Firstly, visit the official CEO Karnataka website at ceokarnataka.kar.nic.in
Scroll down on the homepage, click the “View Electoral Rolls” under “I want to” section and then click the “Final Electoral Rolls – 2020” link as shown below:-
CEO Karnataka Final Electoral Rolls
Afterwards, the district-wise CEO Karnataka Voters List 2020 will get opened as shown below:-
CEO Karnataka Voters List 2020 District Wise
Accordingly, people can click their District Name, then Assembly Constituency, Polling Station Name and then can enter a captcha to download the Voter List in PDF format along with their photograph as shown below:-
CEO Karnataka Voter List with Photo 2020
Finally candidates can perform manual search in the downloaded CEO Karnataka Voter List with Photo to find there name and download Voter ID Card.

Karnataka Voter ID Card Download – Find Name in CEO Voters List
Below is the complete procedure to find your name online and download the Voter ID Card in Karnataka:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Candidates can search their name online at the official website of CEO Karnataka.
Accordingly, candidates have to click “Search my Name in Voter List” under ‘I want to’ sections and then click at the “Search Name Final Roll 2020”
A new window for finding name in the Karnataka Voter List 2020 online appears as shown below:-
Karnataka Voter ID Card Download
Here candidates can find their name online using the EPIC Number, Name and Other details. Moreover, candidates can register their mobile number and can track their application status using registered mobile number.
Finally, after finding their name online, candidates can download the Voter ID Card and take a printout to caste their important vote.

Search with EPIC Number – Here people can Find Name in CEO Karnataka Voters List 2020 using EPIC Number or Voter ID Card with Photo. Candidates can select their district, enter their EPIC Number and click on the Search button. Then all the details of the citizen will get displayed on the screen. Finally can download this file and take a printout of their Voter ID Card. 
Search with Name and Other Details – Candidates can directly search their name in the electoral roll using their name and other details through the link given below. Here candidates have to enter their District, Name, Relation Name, Sex and Assembly Constituency and click on the “Search” button to fetch their complete details.
Search Status of Application through your Mobile number – Moreover, candidates can search status of application through your mobile number. Furthermore, all those people whose name does not appears in the list does not have to worry. They can make online enrollment for the Karnataka Voter List and can then download their Voter ID Card.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: ceokarnataka.kar.nic.in
SAVE AS PDF
