
Arogya Karnataka – Karnataka govt. is going to launch Universal Health Coverage Scheme (UHC) – Arogya Karnataka to provide health care facilities to every family. Subsequently all the families, irrespective of their income can avail the benefits of UHC Scheme. Accordingly, all the govt. schemes of the state govt. will come under a single umbrella under this Arogya Bhagya Scheme. This scheme will benefit all the residents i.e 1.43 crore people across the state.
This is a first of its kind initiative in the country. Accordingly, all the residents can avail cashless medical treatment in all government or govt. empaneled hospitals. Moreover, there is no cap on the medical expenditure on treatment in govt. hospitals. For this reason, govt. will issue UHC Cards to every family /individual.
Arogya Karnataka – Latest Update – Finally, the state govt. has launched Arogya Karnataka Scheme. Under this scheme, Below Poverty Line (BPL) families will get free treatment upto Rs. 1.5 lakh while for Above Poverty Line (APL) families govt. will bear 30% of the total bills upto Rs. 1.5 lakh. Nearly, 1.05 crore households will get free of cost treatment.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

People can avail primary, secondary as well as tertiary hospitalization benefits under this scheme. For this scheme, Karnataka govt. has allocated a budget of Rs. 1500 crore and has launched this scheme on 2nd March 2018. Moreover, the cost of Arogya Karnataka Scheme is Rs. 2000 crore and the state govt. will implement this scheme from 5 March 2018 in all govt. hospitals. 
Karnataka Universal Health Coverage (UHC) Scheme / Arogya Karnataka
The important features and highlights of Arogya Karnataka Scheme (Karnataka Budget 2018-19) are as follows:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


This scheme is applicable for all people in Karnataka and is not dependent on their income.
Subsequently, the primary objective of UHC Scheme is to ensure “Health For All”.
Accordingly, people can avail cashless medical treatment in any govt. hospital without an maximum limit of expenditure. In addition to this, aarogya karnataka scheme will also remain applicable to other govt. empaneled hospitals.
Karnataka Govt. will issue UHC Cards to all families / individuals to enable them to avail the benefits of this scheme. Moreover, govt. will issue separate Health Cards to people who are suffering from non-communicable diseases.
Various department such as Rural Development and Panchayati Raj, Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) and Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) dept will participate to successfully execute Arogya Karnataka Scheme.
Karnataka govt. will take every possible step to ensure that patients would receive tertiary care facilities in govt. hospitals. This will reduce dependence of people on private hospitals for surgeries and other utilities.

Arogya Karnataka Scheme
Under this health scheme, people will have to firstly go to government hospital. In case the treatment is not available in govt. hospital, only then on the recommendation of doctors, people will get referred to private hospitals. Accordingly, state govt. will reimburse the expenditure amount to the private hospitals through Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust (SAST). In addition to this, people will have to make declaration that the person is not a beneficiary of any other govt. health scheme.
Arogya Bhagya Scheme is an after effect of National Health protection Scheme announced by the Modi govt. which ensures “Health For All”. Furthermore, Karnataka govt. is likely to implement this scheme from 23 February 2018.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
