
Karnataka government has launched Sidda Sarkarada Nade Sevegala Kade Scheme (march of state government towards services for citizens). Subsequently, the state govt. will make use of the un-utilized funds for construction work of schools, anganwadi centers and other health scheme. For these welfare activities, Karnataka govt. will spend Rs 406 crore before March 2018.
Govt. will release these Local Area Development (LAD) funds of the legislators for the department of health, education, health and women & child development. 
Under this programme, govt. will carry forward the process of building classrooms, basic infrastructure development in hospitals and development of several anganwadi centers for workers.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Sidda Sarkarada Nade Sevegala Kade Scheme
The important features and highlights of this programme are as follows:-

Karnataka govt. will now utilize the unused Local Area Development funds of the legislators.
Subsequently, these funds worth Rs 406 crore are unspent for the past one decade. Henceforth, these are present in the account of Deputy Commissioners of the districts.
Accordingly, govt. will now spend money for construction / repair of the classrooms, anganwadi centers and to provide better health services.
All the funds lying inoperative under the Legislators Local Area Development Scheme from the duration of 2012-13 will now get utilized.
Henceforth, Commissioners will receive guidelines to fully spend the dormant funds for the welfare activities.
Henceforth, this is a first of its kind initiative of the state government to utilize LAD funds.
Furthermore, now legislators does not have any authority to use these funds as their terms have ended.

Distribution of Funds
Karnataka govt. is going to distribute these funds among various departments for specific projects as given below in the table:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});



Department
Amount
Purpose


Education
Rs 243 crore
Construction / Repair of 2719 classrooms in government schools


Health
Rs 122 crore
Improve basic infrastructure of 309 Government hospitals


Women and Child Development
Rs 40 crore
Construction of 346 Anganwadi centers


Karnataka govt. is going to spend the entire un-utilized money for the welfare activities of citizens in the state.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
