
Karnataka govt. has launched an ambitious Unnati scheme to promote technology startups being run by SC / ST youths and those who are developing a product or solution with strong rural focus. Karnataka Unnati Scheme Application Form will remain available from 10 October 2018 at www.kalyanakendra.com. The state govt. will support these startups by providing funds which can go upto Rs. 50 lakh. 
The state govt. has allocated a budget of Rs. 20 crore to encourage startups which would result in job creation and skill development among Dalit and Adivasi youth. The official statement said “Funds are not an issue if startups come up with good ideas. If the response is good, the budget can go up to Rs 100 crore”. Karnataka Unnati scheme is a major push for a real change on the ground level.
The primary objective to start such kind of scheme for startups is to find new ideas to solve old age issues.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Karnataka Unnati Scheme 2018 to Fund Startups
The state govt. has launched Unnati scheme to provide funds upto Rs. 50 lakh to technology startups run by SC / ST entrepreneurs and those startups which possess a product or solution with rural focus. The beneficiaries would be categorized into 2 categories:-

First Category – Those startups where SC / ST entrepreneurs have substantial stake with hands on-role in management. For this category, there is only 1 criteria which is that the idea has to be good enough regardless of the sector.
Second Category – This includes all those startups which can be run by any community, but the idea must be a satisfactory one. The idea must be working to solve a real world problem in areas such as health, education, sanitation, waste segregation, and mechanised scavenging (replacement of manual scavenging) in rural areas.

The invention of these startups must have a lasting social impact and must bring change in the life of citizens.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Unnati Scheme Application Form & Selection Process in Karnataka
The state govt. has made an announcement that the Karnataka Unnati scheme online application form will be available at the official website http://adcl.karnataka.gov.in/en/unnati_scheme.html. A 3 member screening committee presided over by the minister will screen proposals and evaluate them on their practicality basis to sanction funding upto Rs. 50 lakh to the selected startups. 
For now, the state govt. has allocated a budget of Rs. 20 crore for this scheme but in case the response is good, then the funds could reach upto Rs. 100 crore. In second category, the shortlisted startups will be eligible to run pilot tests of their ideas in rural areas. Moreover, selected startups would be able to receive mentorship from social welfare department as well as industry experts. On successful completion of pilots, their products would be guided through Proof-of-Concept and Market ready stage. 
Dept. would share governance and social problems which are believed to need an immediate and sustainable solution. All the startups that are under 4 years, registered as an entity in Karnataka, with half of workforce employed in the state are eligible.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
