


Table of Contents

Karnataka CM’s 1 Lakh Bengaluru Housing Scheme Application FormEligibility CriteriaImportant Features of this Bengaluru Housing SchemeApplication FeesNecessary DocumentsList of Applicants – Applicant Details & Applicant SearchImportant LinksReferences
Karnataka state govt. is inviting online applications for the CM’s 1 lakh Bengaluru Housing Scheme. Subsequently, this scheme will provide one lakh multi-storied houses to the economically weaker sections of the society. Accordingly state govt. will provide a subsidy of Rs 2.70 lakh- Rs 3.50 lakh for houses. Accordingly, interested candidates can apply online through the official website ashraya.kar.nic.in 
All those candidates who aspire to realize their dream of getting an own house in the state can apply through the online mode. However, one family can submit one entry application. Below is the complete procedure to apply online. The Last Date to apply online for the CM’s One Lakh Bengaluru Housing Scheme has now extended till 15 February 2018.
Latest Update (27 March 2018) – Karnataka govt. has released the CM One Lakh Houses Selection Letter. Candidates can check their name and download the selection letter through the link – CM 1 lakh Houses Selection Letter. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

People can also see Residential Planning Performance Beneficiary (City Wise). Please check your name through link – http://164.100.133.123/Report/frmMpic_Urban.aspx for Urban Areas and http://164.100.133.123/Report/frmMpic_Rural.aspx for Rural areas.
Karnataka CM’s 1 Lakh Bengaluru Housing Scheme Application Form
Under this scheme, houses will get built on the land of Revenue Department (at outskirts of Bengaluru). The Rajiv Gandhi Rural Housing Corporation Ltd. (RGRHCL) is going to implement this scheme and so is inviting online applications. Now candidates can proceed for online form filling:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Firstly visit the official website ashraya.kar.nic.in
On the homepage, click the “Online Application Form” link under “CM’s One Lakh Houses-Bengaluru” section or directly click this link
Next click the “One Lakh Houses Application Entry Form” link to open the application form which appears as shown below:-
Bengaluru Housing Scheme Application Form
Henceforth candidates have to fill all the details correctly and complete the application process.
Furthermore, candidates have to submit the application forms to the Bangalore One Centers (Click Here for List), all ward offices of BBMP and can also submit online from any browsing center.

Moreover, one family can submit only one application. Karnataka govt. is inviting Ration Card Details Updation. Interested candidates can update their Ration Card details through the link:-
http://164.100.133.123/cmonelakh/OneLakh_HouseRation Card.aspx
Eligibility Criteria
The candidate must fulfill the following eligibility criteria to apply for the houses in Karnataka:-
a) The maximum income of the candidate from all sources must not exceed Rs 87,000.
b) Subsequently, the candidate must be a permanent resident of Bengaluru for the previous 5 years.
c) All the candidates must possess an Aadhaar Card.
d) In addition to this, candidate must not have a house of their own (on their own name).
e) Moreover, candidate should not be enrolled or have taken subsidy from any other scheme.
Important Features of this Bengaluru Housing Scheme

Reservation – The state govt. will provide different reservations for different categories as follows:-


Category
Percentage of Reservation


Scheduled Castes
30%


Scheduled Tribes
10%


Minorities
10%


General
50%



Subsidy – The cost for each house is Rs 5.50 lakhs to Rs 6.00 lakhs on which govt. will provide subsidy as given below:-


Scheduled Caste / Scheduled Tribes
Rs 3.50 lakhs


General
Rs 2.70 lakhs



However, the candidate has to deposit the balance amount (after subsidy) as and when informed by RGRHCL.

For more details, read – Karnataka CM 1 Lakh Houses Selection Letter Download – Bengaluru Housing Scheme 
Application Fees
The application fees is Rs 250 to fill the online application. The candidates can pay this fees through Debit Card / Credit Card / Net banking. Moreover, candidates can also pay fees in cash at the Bangalore One Centers (Axis and HDFC bank).
Necessary Documents

Caste Certificate Number of Revenue Department.
Number of Income Certificate of Revenue Department.
Domicile Certificate Number from Revenue Department.
Ration Card
Aadhaar Card Number
Labor Department Registration Number (only for Construction workers).
Voter Card Number

List of Applicants – Applicant Details & Applicant Search
Karnataka govt. has released the list of applicants for the Karnataka CM 1 lakh housing scheme. Subsequently, all the applicants can check their details in the list using the link given below:-
List of Applicants – Applicant Details
Furthermore, if candidates are unable to search their name in the List of applicants, then applicants can make an advance search using either their Name or Mobile Number or Ration Card Number using the link – Applicant Search
Important Links
Candidates can also see the following links for Bengaluru Housing Scheme:-
— Government Order – Click Here
— Survey Number and Availability – Click Here
— Floor Model (Tentative) – Click Here
— Individual Unit Tentative Model – Click Here
References
— Furthermore for any query, candidates can contact the RGRHCL through the link given below:-
Contact Us





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
