


Table of Contents

Karnataka Mathrushree Scheme 2018 – Rs. 6000 Maternity Benefit SchemeOther Schemes for Pregnant Women in Karnataka – Maternity Benefit SchemeSandhya Suraksha Yojana – Monthly Pension for Senior Citizens
Karnataka Govt. has announced the launch of Mathrushree Scheme 2018. Under this Maternity Benefit Scheme, the state govt. will provide a total allowance of Rs. 6,000 as pregnancy aid to mother of Below Poverty Line (BPL) families. This amount will be given to the pregnant women for 3 months before delivery and 3 months after delivery at Rs. 1,000 p.m. 
Govt. will implement this scheme from 1 November 2018 with an allocation of Rs. 350 crore in phased manner. Govt. will increase this monthly amount from Rs. 1,000 in the upcoming 5 years in phases. This scheme is applicable for first 2 deliveries.
The state govt. will transfer this amount directly into the Aadhaar-linked bank accounts of the eligible expecting mothers. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Karnataka Mathrushree Scheme 2018 – Rs. 6000 Maternity Benefit Scheme
The important features and highlights of this Mathrushree Scheme are as follows:-

The state govt. will provide Rs. 6,000 to all the pregnant mother from BPL Families.
This amount would be given in 6 installments at Rs. 6,000 p.m.
Govt. will start implementing this scheme from 1 November 2018 with an outlay of Rs. 350 crore.
This scheme will remain applicable only to the first two babies. Mothers having their 3rd baby will not be eligible for this scheme.
Govt. will transfer this amount directly through DBT.

All the pregnant mothers from poor families will be benefited from this scheme and this amount will assist them while their delivery. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Other Schemes for Pregnant Women in Karnataka – Maternity Benefit Scheme
The following schemes for pregnant women are currently running in Karnataka:-
— Janani Suraksha Yojana (JSY)
— Thayi bhagya
— Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana
— Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana
— Janani Suraksha Yojane
Sandhya Suraksha Yojana – Monthly Pension for Senior Citizens
In Karnataka Budget 2018-19, HD Kumaraswamy has also announced that Sandhya Suraksha Yojana 2018. Govt. will increase the monthly pension from Rs. 600 to Rs. 1,000 from 1 November 2018 for the next 5 years. This scheme will benefit a total number of 32.92 lakh senior citizens. Govt. has allotted a budgetary provision of Rs. 660 crore for this scheme to the Revenue department.
All the senior citizens earning upto Rs. 20,000 per annum and who are currently not availing any other benefits like family pension, widow pension, physically handicapped pension and old age pension are eligible. This scheme will particularly benefit small farmers, marginal farmers, agricultural labourers, weavers, fishermen, labourers from unorganised sectors (excluding building and other construction workers).





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
