
Karnataka govt. is going to launch Rajiv Gandhi Entrepreneurship Encouragement Scheme (RGEES) to boost Information Technology (IT) sector. Subsequently, this new scheme will offer a better chance for new innovators and entrepreneurs to enhance their future skills. Under RGEES scheme, govt. will provide fellowship amount of Rs. 30,000 to graduate students and professionals (having experience) to pursue entrepreneurship for 12 months. 
The primary focus of RG Entrepreneurship Encouragement Scheme is to build an innovation driven entrepreneurial eco-system. Moreover, creation of jobs and wealth are the most important aspects for socio-economic development for which govt. will encourage young entrepreneurs. The main motto is “Driving Innovation Through Disruption”. 
RGEES will provide this initial fellowship for risk mitigation for a new business idea. Furthermore, this scheme also aims to make entrepreneurship a more attractive and lucrative career opportunity to bring positive momentum in science and technology. In the first phase, around 1000 young entrepreneurs will get selected.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rajiv Gandhi Entrepreneurship Encouragement Scheme (RGEES)
Minister of IT of state, Priyank Kharge has launched this scheme for entrepreneurs at the startup level on 12 March 2018. The important features and highlights of RGEES are as follows:- 

RGEES will help in creating a new team of innovators and entrepreneurs to bring IT Revolution in Karnataka.
Accordingly, govt. will provide fellowship to the candidates offering business idea to the govt.
Under this scheme, govt. will provide a grant of Rs. 30,000 to each individual entrepreneur having innovative ideas.
In addition to this, govt. will also provide 30 percent as mentorship to youths for their ideas if the idea becomes successful after implementation.
Henceforth, RGEES will also provide foster innovative ideas and will generate job opportunities and thus lead to the development of karnataka.
Subsequently, graduate students and new young IT Students can offer their ideas and innovations for the growth of IT sector.

Rajiv Gandhi Entrepreneurship Encouragement Scheme Karnataka
RGEES scheme will provide financial support to the new innovators and entrepreneurs in the IT sector. Accordingly, govt. has named this scheme in the honour of former PM Rajiv Gandhi who ushered in IT revolution in the country to build a momentum on the IT front. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});






(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
