
कर्नाटक राशन कार्ड ऑनलाइन एप्लीकेशन फॉर्म अब ahara.kar.nic.in पर उपलब्ध है, आवेदन पत्र भरने की पूरी प्रक्रिया PDF फॉर्मेट में डाउनलोड करें

Table of Contents

Ration Card Karnataka Online Application Form 2020Karnataka Ration Card Form PDF – Offline ProcessWhat is the Eligibility Criteria for Karnataka Ration CardList of Documents Required for New Ration Card in KarnatakaHow to Check Name in Karnataka New Ration Card List 2020Check Karnataka Ration Card Application Status OnlineTypes of Ration Card Issued in KarnatakaAn Overview of Karnataka Ration CardHelpline Number (Toll Free) for Karnataka Ration Card
Karnataka ration card form pdf | ration card Karnataka online application 2019-2020 | apply ration card online Karnataka | bpl card online application in Karnataka 2020
Food and Civil Supplies department is inviting Karnataka Ration Card online application form 2020 at ahara.kar.nic.in. People can now apply online for new ration card in Karnataka & can also check complete application procedure in PDF format. All those people whose name does not appears in the Karnataka Ration Card List 2019-2020 can now check documents required and how to apply for new APL / BPL ration card in Karnataka. Moreover, people can also track status of Application for Inclusion of Name in Ration Card Karnataka.
All the candidates can check the process of how to apply ration card online Karnataka by filling ration card Karnataka online application 2019-2020. In addition to this, people can perform Karnataka Ration Card Form PDF download and submit it to the concerned authorities to get their name included in the new Ration Card List. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rashan Card is an essential document issued by ePDS department in Karnataka to avail benefits of most of the state sponsored government schemes. Also, people can get ration at subsidized rates through these ration cards from fair price shops (FPS) located nearby.
Ration Card Karnataka Online Application Form 2020
Aadhar is mandatory to apply for new Ration Card in Karnataka. Below is the complete process on how to apply for new ration card in Karnataka:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Firstly visit the official website at ahara.kar.nic.in
At the homepage, click at the “E-Services” section in the main menu or directly click this link
Here scroll over the “E-Ration Card” option and then click at the ‘New Ration Card‘ option as shown below:-
Apply Karnataka E-Ration Card Online

In the newly opened page, choose the “language (Kannada or English)” and then click at the “New Ration Card Request” to open the page as shown below:-
Karnataka Ration Card Online Application Form

Here select the card type applying for i.e either Priority Household (PHH) for BPL Ration Card or Non-Priority Household (NPHH) for APL Ration Card. Then click at the “Proceed” button.
Then mark the correct option against the question asked – Do you applied for BPL Ration card before and you want to link with this New application?
After selecting the option, the new page for bpl card online application in Karnataka 2019-2020 will appear as shown below:-
BPL Card Online Application in Karnataka 2019-2020

Here enter the Aadhaar number and Aadhar seeded mobile number and then click at the “Go” option
Finally the registration form for ration card will appear as shown below:-
Karnataka Ration Card Registration Form Apply


Karnataka Ration Card Form PDF – Offline Process
People can now check the procedure for filing application for new ration card in Karnataka. This PDF contains the detailed online / offline procedure to apply for new ration card in Karnataka. Here is the direct link to download Karnataka Ration Card Form PDF which is mentioned below:-
https://ahara.kar.nic.in/Doc/newaplrc.pdf
Application Fees
There is no application form filling fee and there is no requirement to pay any fees while applying online for new ration card in Karnataka. However, applicants can collect their ration cards from the concerned authorities on making a payment of Rs. 100 per copy.
Timelines for Issuing Ration Card in Karnataka
All the applicants can submit the complete Karnataka Ration Card online application form and new ration cards would be issued within 15 days of submission of application. 
Linking of Aadhaar Card with Ration Card
People can now link their Unique Identification Number or Aadhaar Card with their ration card. This can be done online by visiting the official portal and then clicking at the “Link to UID” link.
What is the Eligibility Criteria for Karnataka Ration Card
All the applicants must meet the basic eligibility criteria to get a new ration card in Karnataka:-
a) Applicants who are permanent resident of Karnataka can apply.
b) Households not already having ration card in the state are eligible.
c) Newly married couples can apply for new ration card.
d) Citizens having temporary ration cards whose date has been expired are eligible.
It is important to note that the issue of new ration card in Karnataka would be based on the household income as well as economic conditions of the family.
List of Documents Required for New Ration Card in Karnataka
Below is the complete list of documents required to apply online for new ration card in Karnataka:-

Residential proof such as Voter ID, Driving License, Aadhaar Card (Scanned Copy)
Age Certificate (Scanned Copy)
Identity Proof like Voter ID, Driving Licence, Aadhar Card (Scanned Copy)
Income proof of the family (Scanned Copy)
Recent Passport Size Photograph of the applicant
Valid Mobile Number / E-mail ID
Self Declaration and Certificate issued by Ward Councillor/ Pradhan
Tenancy Agreement (if applicable)

In case of non-possession of above mentioned documents, applications for new ration cards are liable to get rejected.
How to Check Name in Karnataka New Ration Card List 2020
All those people who had already applied online can now check their name in the Karnataka new ration card list 2020 through the link given below:-
Karnataka Ration Card List 2020
Check Karnataka Ration Card Application Status Online
Upon submission of the application form, applicants can track the application status till the issue of new ration card in Karnataka. In order to check the ration card application status, applicants will have follow the given steps:-

Visit the official link at https://ahara.kar.nic.in/e_services.aspx
At this page, click at the “E-Status” link and then click at the “Status of the new / defending ration card” link.
Click at the respective links of district for Ration Card Status.
Afterwards, click at the “Application Status of New Ration Card” option and verify details.

Finally, the new ration card status of the applicants in Karnataka will appear online.
Types of Ration Card Issued in Karnataka
There are 4 different types of ration cards which are issued to citizens on the basis of their financial conditions as well as income level. The different types of ration cards issued to citizens of Karnataka are as follows:- 

Priority House Hold (PHH) Ration Cards – This type of PHH ration cards are issued to citizens belonging to rural areas of the state. PHH category RCs are further divided into 2 sub-groups to provide food grains at subsidized rates on monthly basis. People will now get rice at Rs. 3 per Kg, wheat at Rs. 2 per Kg and coarse grains at rate of Rs. 1 per Kg.
Annapurna Yojna (AY) Ration Cards – Annapurna Yojana ration cards are issued to poor citizens who are above the age of 65 years. The state govt. provides them with 10 Kg of food grains on monthly basis.
Antyodaya Anna Yojna (AAY) Ration Cards – AYY ration cards are issued to those households having annual income below Rs. 15,000. Such families gets food grains at cheaper rates than other ration card holders. These households gets rice at Rs. 3 per Kg rate and wheat at Rs. 2 per Kg rate.
Non-Priority House Hold (NPHH) Ration Cards – NPHH ration cards are issued to such families having stable annual income. NPHH ration card holder families doesn’t get food grains at subsidized prize like above mentioned RC holders.

An Overview of Karnataka Ration Card
Here is an overview of Karnataka Ration Card which is mentioned in the table below:-


1.
Service Type
Ration Card


2.
State Name
Karnataka


3.
Article Category
List / Status / Application


4.
Concerned Department
Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department, Govt. of Karnataka


5.
Applicable Year
2020


6.
4 Types of Ration Cards
Priority Households (PHH), Non-Priority Households (NPHH), Annapurna Yojana (AY), Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY)


7.
Mode of Checking Status / List / Application
Online


8.
Official Website
https://ahara.kar.nic.in/


Helpline Number (Toll Free) for Karnataka Ration Card
People can now contact the Food, Civil Supplies & Consumer Affairs Department and the Department of Legal Metrology, Evolution Soudha, Bangalore – 560001. The contact details are given below:-
Helpline number – 1967
Toll free contact no. – 1800-425-9339
Official website – ahara.kar.nic.in





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: ahara.kar.nic.in
SAVE AS PDF
