
Karnataka govt. has finally presented the Karnataka Budget 2018-19. The total cost of the budget is around Rs. 2.1 lakh crore. Subsequently, state govt.has announced various schemes and initiatives for the welfare of farmers, women, youths, merchants and other sections of the society.
This budget includes new schemes like Raita Belaku Scheme (Farmers), Mukhyamantri Anila Bhagya Yojana (LPG Gas Connections), Madhyama Sanjeevani Scheme (Journalists), Arogya Karnataka Scheme – Universal Health Coverage (Health Care), Free Bus Pass Scheme (Students), Disha Scheme (Entrepreneurs), Udyogini Scheme (Women) etc. 
This budget of Karnataka govt. is high of populism and pro-farmers and pro-women as the state elections are going to held this year.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Karnataka Budget 2018-19 – Schemes & Initiatives
Below are the highlights and important features of this year’s Karnataka Budget:-

Farmers –

Karnataka govt. has launched Raita Belaku Scheme for Dry Land Farmers to encourage them along with their economic independence. This scheme will ensure guaranteed annual income of Rs. 5000 – Rs. 10000 per hectare to the farmers. Subsequently, this scheme will benefit around 70 lakh farmers with a total outlay of Rs. 3500 crore. This is the biggest national programme in terms of area covered (64 lakh hectares) and no of farmers impacted.
Karnataka Budget 2018-19 Farmers
The state govt. has allotted Rs. 845 crore for Karnataka Raitha Suraksha Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana.
As a major step towards uplifting of farmers, govt. allots Rs. 600 crore for Krishi Bhagya Yojana.
Govt. will extend the area under organic farming to 1.5 lakh hectares with a total outlay of Rs. 50 crore. Moreover, govt. will also set up an agricultural college in Chamrajanagar.
Henceforth, govt. has allocated Rs. 24 crore to promote Millet Farming to around 60,000 hectares.
Furthermore, govt. has also announced Farm Loan Waiver of upto Rs. 1 Lakh from cooperative banks in case of death of the farmers.


Health Care –

Karnataka govt. has launched Arogya Karnataka Scheme for citizens. This scheme will ensure primary, secondary and tertiary healthcare facilities to all the citizens. Subsequently, this scheme will provide Universal Health Coverage through the UHC Cards. Govt. is going to launch this scheme in February 2018.
Karnataka Budget 2018-19 Health
The state govt. will upgrade 9000 sub centers as Health and Wellness Centers.
As a major step towards quality healthcare, govt. will open 100 bed ward in Bengaluru Medical College and Research institute..
Moreover, govt. is going to construct hospital buildings in Gadag, Koppal & Chamrajnagar Medical Colleges.
Furthermore, govt. will certify all the district and taluk hospitals under National Accreditation Board.


Education –

Karnataka govt. is going to provide free higher education to the girls of govt. colleges. This scheme will provide free education to girls studying in PUC, Degree and Post Graduate (PG) courses in government colleges. Subsequently, this scheme will improve the overall quality of education. This scheme will benefit 3.7 lakh girl students with total outlay of Rs. 95 crore
Karnataka Budget 2018-19 Education
The state govt. will open 100 Karnataka Public Schools (up to 12th standard) at Gram Panchayat level with total outlay of Rs. 5 crore.
As a major step towards quality education, govt. will open science centers in all Govt. High Schools and PU Colleges with total outlay of Rs. 7.5 crore.
Moreover, Karnataka govt. is going to open Basava Study Center in Mysuru University with Rs. 2 crore budget.
Henceforth, all the govt. schools which have completed 100 years will get declared and developed as Heritage Schools.
Karnataka govt. is going to provide free bus pass to all the students. The state govt. will distribute free bus passes in Karnataka in order to remove the hindrance of transport expenses for students going to various schools and colleges.
Karnataka Budget 2018-19 Free Bus Pass
Furthermore, the state govt. will install CCTV cameras at all the govt. schools to ensure safety of students.


Youth Skill Development –

The state govt. is going to provide computer lab facilities in 120 ITIs with total outlay of Rs. 10 crore under PPP Model.
Department of Skill Development, Entrepreneurship & Training will provide training to 2.5 lakh people.
Furthermore, govt. is going to extend DISHA Scheme to all districts to provide training to 1 lakh entrepreneurs with total cost of Rs. 2 crore.
Karnataka Budget 2018-19 Youth


Women –

Karnataka govt. is going to launch Mukhyamantri Anila Bhagya Yojana to provide free LPG connections to women. Subsequently, this scheme will encourage them towards a smoke free India. Under this scheme, women will get gas connection with 2 Burner Gas Stove and 2 Refill Cylinders absolutely free of cost. The state govt. has allotted Rs. 1350 crore for the successful implementation of this scheme. Accordingly, this scheme will benefit 30 lakh women.
Karnataka Budget 2018-19 Women
Karnataka govt. is going to provide Incentive of Rs. 3 lakh to SC Boy who marries a girl from other caste. Moreover, govt. will provide Rs. 5 lakh as incentive to an SC Girl for marrying a boy of any other caste.
For women empowerment, govt. will provide Rs. 50,000 loan to the women and fisherman at 0% interest rate.
Furthermore, govt. will provide skill training to women working in IT Sector who are making return after long break / maternity leave.


Digital Karnataka –

Karnataka govt. has launched E-Kshana to ease down the process of getting Caste, Residence and Income Certificate online.
Accordingly, govt. has launched Moulya App in order to find the guidance value of any immovable property.
Karnataka govt. will also develop Samyojane App to obtain citizen services of the Department. Furthermore, govt. will also develop Dishank App in order the Survey Number and Map of the spot where a citizen stands.


Towards a Socially Just Society –

Post Matric Hostel Students can now avail Suchi Sambhrama Kits.
Accordingly, to avail the benefit of reservation for backward classes, the state govt. has increased the Creamy Layer Income Limit from 6 lakh to Rs. 8 lakh.
Karnataka govt. has also announced that it will provide loans of upto Rs. 10 lakh to various unemployed backward class graduates. Furthermore, candidates will get these loans at just 6% interest rate for self employment.
The state govt. will reserve 25% of seats for Backward classes and minority students in SC / ST Post Matric Hostel.
Karnataka govt. will provide subsidy in the form of share capital to 100 eligible SC / ST cooperative societies.
Furthermore in Karnataka Budget 2018-19, there is a provision of providing loan and subsidy to 680 Manual Scavangers for Land purchase.


Minorities –

Karnataka govt. is going to launch a new scheme to provide loan and subsidy under the Professional Incentive Scheme of Minority development Corporation (MDC). This scheme will cost Rs. 30 crore to the state exchequer.
Moreover, the state govt. has allocated Rs. 200 crore for the welfare of Christian Community.
In Karnataka Budget 2018-19, govt. also decides to implement Start-Up Loan Facility Scheme for women with total outlay of Rs. 15 crore through MDC. Furthermore, govt. will also open 25 new Morarji Desai Residential schools.


Inclusive Society Building – Opportunities for All –

Karnataka govt. is going to open 250 Urban Anganwadis with total cost of Rs. 17.5 crore. In addition to this, there is a provision to open 100 mobile anganwadis and creches at work places with cost of around Rs. 10 crore for the benefit of labourers.
Moreover, the loan amount under Udyogini Scheme is now Rs. 3 lakh (previously Rs. 1 lakh).
Furthermore, there is 4% reservation in Grade A & Grade B jobs for Persons with Disabilities (PWDs).



Karnataka Budget 2018-19 covers all of these important sections of the society. Moreover, this budget also includes some other schemes which are described below.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Karnataka Budget 2018-19 – Other Important Schemes & Initiatives

Govt. will establish Karnataka Innovation Authority which is presided over by the Chief Minister.
Accordingly for Designing of products and enterprises, govt. will establish a Center for Excellence in Design.
Accordingly, govt. will soon develop a Karnataka New Logistics Policy in order to create Multi Modal Transport system. In addition to this, govt. will set up Special Purpose Vehicle for Suburban Rail. In Karnataka Budget 2018-19, govt. has allocated Rs. 17000 crore and will complete this work in partnership with Indian Railways.
Karnataka govt. is going to develop 40 lakes and also 250 kms of footpath. Moreover, govt. will develop 110 villages which are included in BBMP.
The state govt. will revise the wages for 5.9 lakh government employees and an equal number of pensioners. Accordingly, govt. will spend Rs. 10,508 crore on this wage revision.
The state govt. has announced Rs. 2500 crore special package for Bengaluru.
Henceforth, govt. decides to waive off the penalties on property taxes for growth of industries. However for this move, industries must pay their principal amount in a single installment.
Monthly pension of the state, national and international level sportsperson is increased which now stands at Rs. 1000 (earlier 750), Rs. 1500 (previously Rs. 1000) and Rs. 2000 (earlier Rs. 1500) respectively.
Monthly pension of the state, national and international level wrestlers is increased which now stands at Rs. 2500 (earlier 750), Rs. 3000 (previously Rs. 1000) and Rs. 4000 (earlier Rs. 1500) respectively.
For Journalists, govt. has launched “Madhyama Sanjeevani Scheme”. This is a group insurance facility where govt. will provide Rs. 5 lakh to the family of the journalist in case of untimely deaths (due to accidents / casualties) while the person is on duty.
Moreover, the state govt. will establish “Kshema Nidhi” for the welfare of news paper distributors. For this, there is a provision of Rs. 2 crore in the budget.



Thanks & Credit : The data for this post is collected from the official twitter account of @CMofKarnataka – #NavaKarnatakaBudget2018. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
