
The state government of Karnataka is all set to launch “Anila Bhagya”, a free LPG scheme for BPL families in the state. Instead of launching the flagship scheme of central government “Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana”, the state govt has decided to launched its own free LPG connection scheme “Anila Bhagya” in the state.
The Anila Bhagya free LPG scheme is expected to be launched in the Mid of July. Under the scheme, state government would offer free LPG connections to BPL card holder families in the state. The Anila Bhagya scheme would be launched from one of the backward districts of the Hyderabad – Karnataka region.
UPDATE: The Anila Bhagya free LPG scheme is expected to be launched in December this year while the online registrations for the scheme may start in 15 days.
READ MORE: Anila Bhagya Scheme Online Application / Registration Forms



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Anila Bhagya Free LPG Scheme
The main objective of the scheme is to provide clean cooking fuel to the families belonging to Below Poverty Line and reduce the health hazards caused by the use of traditional fossil fuel.
The selection of beneficiaries under the central government’s Ujjwala yojana is being done on the basis of SECC-2011 data while under the Anila Bhagya scheme, all the BPL card holders whether present in the SECC-2011 list or not would be entitled to get free LPG connection.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The scheme was announced in the Karnataka state budget of 2017-18 by chief minister Siddaramaiah. Under the Anila Bhagya scheme, about 1 Crore families in the state whether eligible for Ujjwala Yojana or not would get free LPG connection.
Benefits under Anila Bhagya Scheme
There are a few additional benefits being offered under the Anila Bhagya free LPG connection scheme over the Ujjwala Yojana as below.

An additional gas stove would be provided to all the eligible BPL card holders under Anila Bhagya scheme.
Whether eligible or not for Ujjwala Yojana, all BPL card holders to get free LPG connection under the scheme.
No need to be present in SECC-2011 BPL list, just hold a BPL card and get a free LPG connection and a gas stove.

The total cost of the Anila Bhagya scheme implementation would be borne by the Karnataka state government and no central assistance would be provided. 
Anila Bhagya scheme is not launched yet, however once the scheme is launched all the details would be updated.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
