
Karnataka govt. has launched Raita Belaku Scheme for dry land farmers. Subsequently, this scheme is going to encourage farmers along with economic independence. Accordingly, the state govt. has announced this scheme in Karnataka Budget 2018-19. This scheme will benefit around 70 lakh dry land farmers.
This primary objective of this scheme is to raise the living standards of the farmers. As per the estimate, this scheme will provide guaranteed annual income of Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 10,000 per hectare to the farmers.
Raita Belaku Scheme, if implemented successfully, will prove a boon for farmers as this is the nation’s biggest programme in terms of coverage and number of farmers to get benefited.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Raita Belaku Scheme – Details
The important features and highlights of this scheme are as follows:-

Karnataka govt. has announced this scheme in the Karnataka Budget 2017-18 to benefit farmers.
Subsequently, this scheme will encourage and empower dry land farmers along with their economic independence as they can generate additional income.
Accordingly, the state govt. has allotted Rs. 3500 crore for the successful implementation of this scheme.
This scheme will cover around 64 hectares land which makes it the biggest national programme in terms of area coverage.
Moreover, Raita Belaku is also the biggest scheme in terms of number of farmers benefited. Accordingly, this scheme will benefit approx. 70 lakh Dry Land Farmers.
Furthermore, this Raita Belaku Scheme is going to generate guaranteed Rs. 5000 to Rs. 10000 per hectare income for the farmers.
Raita Belaku Scheme Karnataka Budget 2018

This scheme will benefit farmers in the state and lure them as the state elections are nearby.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Other Announcement for Farmers
Karnataka state govt. has taken various other measures to uplift farmers in the state:- 

The state govt. has earmarked Rs. 845 crore for Karnataka Raitha Suraksha Scheme.
Subsequently, govt. will provide Rs. 600 crore for Krishi Bhagya Scheme to benefit farmers.
Karnataka govt. has earmarked Rs. 50 crore for area under organic farming to get extended by 1.5 lakh hectares.
In addition to this, govt. will set up new agricultural college in chamrajanagar.
Furthermore, govt. has allotted Rs. 24 crore to increase Millet Farming to 60,000 hectares.

To ensure health for all, govt. has also announced Arogya Karnataka Scheme in Karnataka Budget 2018-19





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
