


Table of Contents

Objectives of Aarogya Bhagya SchemeSchemes to be Merged in Aarogya BhagyaInsurance Premium of Aarogya Bhagya Scheme
The Karnataka state government is going to launch a healthcare scheme named “Aarogya Bhagya Scheme” for providing free medical treatment to poor across the state. The government has fixed the target to cover around 14 million state households as a part of universal health coverage (UHC) under the scheme.
The mainstream of the scheme is to provide free healthcare services particularly to needy households in the state. The targeted people under the Aarogya Bhagya scheme mainly will be from socially and economically backward classes in the society.
Objectives of Aarogya Bhagya Scheme
The main objective of the Aarogya Bhagya health insurance scheme is to provide healthcare facilities especially to households belonging to socially and economically backward classes. The scheme will provide cashless treatment facilities at all the government hospitals across the state and selected empaneled private healthcare institutions and hospitals.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Below are the main highlights of Karnataka Aarogya Bhagya Scheme

The Universal health coverage (UHC) scheme will cover around 14 million households.
The Aadhar card will be linked with the universal health card to leverage the healthcare facilities.
The scheme will start on 1 November at Kannada Rajyotsava day in all districts of the state.
The state government will merge seven different existing healthcare schemes in the Aarogya Bhagya scheme, accordingly to the official notification.
This scheme will provide benefits to everyone without any discrepancy among APL and BPL card holders.
The beneficiary of this scheme can get healthcare treatment in government as well as private hospitals.

Schemes to be Merged in Aarogya Bhagya
Below is the list of 7 existing healthcare schemes which will be merged into the new Aarogya Bhagya scheme for the better efficiency and transparency in the whole implementation of the scheme.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Rajiv Arogya Bhagya Scheme
Vajpayee Arogyashree Scheme
Mukhyamantri Santwana Harish scheme
Yeshasvini Health Insurance Scheme
janani shishu suraksha karyakram
Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana
Jyothi Sanjeevini Scheme

According to the notification, Aarogya Bhagya scheme the free healthcare facilities will be provided in two category for needy households across the state.
In first category, about 10.5 million households will be covered from different categories including farmers, unorganized workers, Anganwadi (childcare center) workers, SC / ST, media professionals, teachers of aided schools, public servants and even sanitation workers. Though, the beneficiaries of this category will not make any contribution towards the Aarogya Bhagya Scheme. The remaining three million households will be covered under the second category.
Insurance Premium of Aarogya Bhagya Scheme
The insurance premium amount of the Aarogya Bhagya Scheme has been decided and is different for households in rural and urban areas. People who are living in rural areas have to pay annually Rs. 300 per person and in urban areas Rs. 700 per person as insurance premium to avail the benefits of this scheme.
Moreover, the state government is also planning to fix the rates for various secondary and tertiary procedures under the Karnataka Private Medical Establishments rules which will be paid to the private hospitals.
Additionally, to ensure the services in emergency cases including for both accidents and medical / surgical emergencies, treatment will be provided at the nearest hospital whether government or private under Treatment first and Payment Next program.
The government has taken effective measures to ensure the better health and well-being of the citizens which are living in the state.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
