


Table of Contents

Ganga Kalyana Scheme 2018 Application Form DownloadLift Irrigation Scheme – Eligibility for Ganga Kalyan Scheme 2018Individual Borewell – Eligibility for Ganaga Kalyana Scheme 2018Ganga Kalyana Borewell Selection List and ProcedureReferences
Karnataka Minority Development Corporation Ltd. is now inviting online application form for Ganga Kalyana Scheme 2018. Under this scheme, all the beneficiaries will get one drilled borewell / open well with pump set from KDMC or lift irrigation facility. The beneficiaries in the selection list must belong to the minority community and must be a small / marginal farmer. Candidates can download the online application form through kmdc.karnataka.gov.in 
Karnataka Farmers will get appropriate irrigation facilities through utilization of perennial sources of water or lifting water through pipelines. In case the perennial water sources are not available then KDMC will provide loans for individual borewell construction on water points recommended by expert geologists.
KDMC will bear the total expenditure of Rs. 1.5 lakh for construction of borewells to promote the agricultural activities.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Ganga Kalyana Scheme 2018 Application Form Download
KDMC aims to provide proper irrigation facilities to dry land through Open Wells / Borewells or other Lift Irrigation Schemes. All the candidates can download ganga kalyana scheme application form in PDF format in kannada language to take loan for borewell through the link given below:-
Ganga Kalyana Borewell Application Form 2018 Kannada

The application form for Ganaga Kalyana Yojana 2018 appears as follows:-
Ganga Kalyana Scheme Application Form 2018

For more details of application forms, please visit the link – Ganga Kalyana New Application Forms 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Lift Irrigation Scheme – Eligibility for Ganga Kalyan Scheme 2018
This type of irrigation facility is given to the agricultural land through efficient utilization of perennial water sources like rivers. To provide adequate water supply for irrigation, water if lifted through pipe lines. The candidates applying for Lift Irrigation facility must fulfill the following eligibility criteria to avail benefits under Ganga Kalyana Yojana 2018:- 

All the beneficiaries must belong to the minority community as per the government order.
Applicant must be a permanent resident of Karnataka.
Candidates must be a small or marginal farmer.
The annual family income of the farmers from all sources must not exceed Rs. 22,000 p.a

Farmers having less than 5 acres of land in addition to the precondition that the land of 7 minority persons is adjacent can avail Lift Irrigation Scheme benefits under Ganga Kalyana Scheme 2018.
Individual Borewell – Eligibility for Ganaga Kalyana Scheme 2018
In case of non-availability of perennial water sources to irrigate land, KDMC provides subsidy for individual borewells construction. Expert geologists identify water points inside the ground appropriate for construction of borewell. KDMC then maintains these borewells for 5 years and then transfers them to consumer co-operatives of beneficaries.
For farmers having land holding between 2 to 5 acres, KDMC will drill a single borewell / open well and supply pump sets. This scheme cost Rs. 1,50,000 per beneficiary which also includes the pump and energization cost. The eligibility criteria is same as mentioned above.
Ganga Kalyana Borewell Selection List and Procedure
In each district, district managers invites application through advertisement in newspapers. Afterwards, District Manager will screen the received applicants and forward it to the Taluk Committee headed by MLA. Afterwards, committee will forward the proposal to the concerned department.
References
— For any further query, candidates can call on the helpline number – +91 08022864720 or can send an e-mail to [email protected]
— For more details, visit the official website kmdc.karnataka.gov.in 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
