
The Karnataka health department is introducing Home Health Care Services under the National Health Campaign with the help of Public Health Foundation of India in Hyderabad-Karnataka region. Under this scheme, poor families in selected six district will get free home health care services. The primary health services will be provided by the health department at their doorstep.
The aim of the scheme is to eliminate the diseases in the first stage by providing medicine at home for the welfare of patient. The health department will also recommend the better hospitals to patients. The campaign would also generate the awareness about the family planning in the state.
Initially the National health campaign will start the scheme in Bidar, Ballari, Kalaburgi, Rayachuru and Yadagiri district of Karnataka-Hyderabad region.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Home Health Care Service – Highlights

The main targets will be the poor families across the state.
The health department will provide medicines for flu, vomiting, diarrhea related diseases.
Many problems related eye, nose, throat, teeth and cancer, free health check-ups for diabetes, blood pressure, hemiplegia, lung diseases, will be covered under the scheme.
The program will also provide healthcare service for pregnant women and children.

Gradually, this campaign will be implemented in all districts across the state. Under the scheme, the state health department will provide fund to modify 105 sub-health centers in Mysuru’s T Narasipura and Rayachuru’s Lingasuguru talukas. For the home health care services, the department is hiring 105 BSc nursing graduates as medicare assistants. The eligible nurse will be trained for 6 months through IGNOU bridge course.
After completing the course at IGNOU, these Medicare assistants will provide the requisite service at patient’s home. The home health care nurses can work alone in the field with support resources available from the health department. To remove the difficulties, the home health care services are to assist the patient to remain at home, avoiding hospitalization or admission.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});






(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
