


Table of Contents

1. Chief Minister Self Employment Scheme (CMEGP) Online Application Form2. Download CM Self Employment Scheme (CMEGP) Application Form3. Check CMEGP Application Status OnlineChief Minister Self Employment Generation Programme (CMEGP) DocumentsCMEGP Details & Eligibility CriteriaChief Minister Self Employment Scheme Helpline Numbers
Karnataka govt. is inviting online applications for Chief Minister Self Employment Scheme at cmegp.kar.nic.in to provide govt. subsidy on loans to individual entrepreneurs in rural areas. Each beneficiary can avail subsidy ranging from 25% to 35% on a single project costing upto Rs. 10 lakh. Interested candidates can check CMEGP details, documents before filling cm self employment scheme online application form 2019 at the official website. 
The state government of Karnataka provides government loans to individual entrepreneurs to generate self employment opportunities under chief minister’s self employment generation programme. Beneficiaries can start a new project by making own contribution of just 5% (special category) and 10% (general category) of the total project cost.
Department of Commerce, Industry and Tourism is the nodal agency for implementation of CMEGP scheme in Karnataka. Candidates can apply through either online or offline mode to avail scheme benefits.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

1. Chief Minister Self Employment Scheme (CMEGP) Online Application Form
Below is the complete procedure to apply online for cm self employment generation programme:-

Firstly visit the official website cmegp.kar.nic.in
At the homepage, click at the “Apply Online” link
Next the CMEGP online application submission page will appear as follows:-
CM Self Employment Scheme Apply Online
Here candidates needs to select the agency and enter the aadhaar number and click at the “Proceed” button.
Afterwards, CM Self Employment scheme online application form will appear as shown below:-
CMEGP Online Application Form 2019
In this CMEGP application form, candidates needs to enter the basic details, address, qualification, EDP training, proposed unit, project cost, means of finance, bank details, details of loan, grants & subsidy details and click at the “Save” button to complete the application process.
Furthermore, candidates can take a printout of the completed application form of Chief Minister Self Employment scheme.

This printout of the CMEGP application form along with the detailed project report and supporting documents needs to be submitted to the respective offices. To check further details, candidates can make Login using the username and password. Applicants can also check how to apply online for CMEGP in case of any difficulty in understanding the online application process. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

2. Download CM Self Employment Scheme (CMEGP) Application Form
This is the offline process for Chief Minister Self Employment scheme where candidates can download the application form in PDF format. To download the CMEGP offline application form in PDF format, click the link below:-
Download CMEGP Application Form (PDF)
The CM Self Employment scheme application form (PDF) will appear as follows:-
Download CM Self Employment Scheme Application Form
Here candidates needs to fill all the necessary details, affix recent photograph and submit the completed application form to the respective offices. 
3. Check CMEGP Application Status Online
After the final submission of CMEGP application form, candidates can also check their CMEGP application status online at the official website. The application status page for Chief Minister Self Employment Generation Programme will appear as below:-
Karnataka CMEGP Application Status Online
Here candidates needs to enter the application ID, click at the captcha button and click at the “View” button to check the application status. 
Chief Minister Self Employment Generation Programme (CMEGP) Documents
Below is the list of the documents which are required to take the benefit of Chief Minister Self Employment Scheme 2019:-


Recent passport photograph
Detailed project report (DPR)


Age proof
Educational qualifications


EDP training certificate
Voter ID / Ration card


Rural certificate for proposed unit
Ex-servicemen certificate


Permission from Gram Panchayat
Caste certificate for SC / ST / OBC / MIN


List of machineries to be purchased
Physically handicapped certificate


CMEGP Details & Eligibility Criteria
All the applicants can check the CMEGP details and eligibility criteria before filling the CMEGP online application form:-

Individual entrepreneurs in rural areas can avail margin money or govt. subsidy ranging from 25% to 35% of total project cost.
Under CMEGP, the maximum allowed project cost is Rs. 10 lakh for any single unit.
Availability of the capital expenditure loan will be only or manufacturing and service activities only.
All general category entrepreneurs can avail subsidy upto Rs. 2.5 lakh while entrepreneurs belonging to SC /ST / OBC / PH / Women / Minorities category can avail subsidy upto Rs. 3.5 lakh.
Pubic sector banks and Regional rural banks (RRB) are the financial agencies to provide margin money to entrepreneurs.
The entrepreneurs must fulfill the age criteria to become eligible for CMEGP. For general category candidates, the age must lie between 21 to 35 years while for special category candidates, the specified age group is 21 to 45 years.
Entrepreneurship Development Training (EDP) to the beneficiary is compulsory at CEDOK – Centre for Entrepreneurship Development of Karnataka or at RUDSET – Rural Development & Self Employment Training.
Only one unit can be setup by a family to get assistance under CMEGP in order to provide benefits to a large number of families.
The govt. subsidy is available only for a single new unit which is setup in rural area with a lock-in period of 3 years and even there is no income limit.
General category beneficiaries needs to contribute 10% of the total project cost while the special category beneficiary entrepreneurs needs to contribute 5% of the project cost.

Chief Minister Self Employment Scheme Helpline Numbers
In case of any query regarding CMEGP application process, applicants can contact the Head office / Corporate Office at – Department of Industries and Commerce, #49, South Block, Khanija Bhavan, Race Course Road, Bengaluru – 560001.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
