
Karnataka Government is going to launch Indira Vastra Bhagya Scheme for Below Poverty Line (BPL) Families. Subsequently, the state govt. will provide free sarees and panches to the poor households. Accordingly, people from the economically weaker sections will get these clothes from the fair price shops. This scheme will benefit around 1.10 crore BPL families.
Vastra Bhagya Scheme is going to add in the list of other popular schemes like Anila Bhagya, Ksheera Bhagya, Laptop Bhagya etc. of the state government. Karnataka govt. will implement this scheme with a total outlay of Rs. 550 crore. 
Textile department has proposed this scheme for the welfare of common people. This scheme is inspired from the Indira Gandhi Society Saree-Dhoti Scheme.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Indira Vastra Bhagya Scheme
Here are the important features and highlights of this scheme which are as follows:-

This scheme will provide free sarees and panches to the people belonging to BPL families.
Under this scheme, Men will get a set of poly cotton panche and poly viscose shirt piece.
In addition to this, Women will get polyester saree and poly cotton blouse piece.
Moreover, this scheme will also benefit the households whose livelihood depends on the Handloom sector as the govt. will directly procure these clothes from weavers at appropriate prices.
Accordingly, the state govt. will launch this scheme on the lines of Indira Gandhi Saree-Dhoti Scheme.
This scheme will benefit around 1.10 crore BPL households.
Karnataka govt. has allotted a budget of Rs. 550 crore for this scheme.

Govt. will use various fair price shops for the distribution process of these clothes (saree and panches). Govt. has sent the proposal to the Finance Department for clearance purposes. After clearance, Cabinet committee is going to implement this scheme before the upcoming elections.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

This scheme is of paramount importance for the BPL families along with people working in the Handloom sector. Accordingly, this scheme will also benefit weavers as they will get fair prices for their produced clothes.
Recently, Tamil Nadu govt. has also launched a similar Free Saree Dhoti Scheme for celebration of Thai Pongal – Read More 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
