
महाराष्ट्र वोटर लिस्ट 2020 (PDF) अब सीईओ की आधिकारिक वेबसाइट ceomaharashtra.gov.in पर उपलब्ध है, नयी मतदाता सूची में अपना नाम अपनी जानकारी या EPIC नंबर के आधार पर खोजें और वोटर ID कार्ड डाउनलोड करें

Table of Contents

Maharashtra CEO Voter List 2020 (PDF Electoral Rolls) DownloadMaharashtra Voter ID Card Download – Search Name Online in Voters List1. Name Wise Maharashtra Voter ID Card Download2. Find Name Online in CEO Maharashtra Voter List 2020 – ID Card Wise
Election Commission of India had earlier announced Legislative Assembly Poll 2019 Dates & Schedule for voting across entire Maharashtra state. Elections in Maharashtra state for 288 vidhan sabha seats were held in 1 phase on 21 October 2019. Chief Electoral Officer has published Maharashtra CEO Voter List 2020 @ ceomaharashtra.gov.in, now people can find their name in new PDF Electoral Rolls and download Voter ID Card.
The updated Maharashtra Electoral Rolls with Photo are available online in the PDF format where people can find their name in the district wise Maharashtra CEO Voters List 2020 with Photo and can Download Voter ID Card before casting their vote. The entire PDF file of the Maharashtra Voter List 2020 is now available online. 
Now citizens can perform manual searching in downloaded Maharashtra PDF Electoral 2020. Moreover, people can even find their name in the Voters List through Name Wise or ID Card method. Moreover, people can adopt a hassle free process and check their names online.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Maharashtra CEO Voter List 2020 (PDF Electoral Rolls) Download
Below is the complete procedure to download the district wise CEO Maharashtra Voter List 2020 (Final PDF Electoral Roll):-

Firstly, visit the official CEO Maharashtra website at ceo.maharashtra.gov.in
At the homepage, click at the “Summary Revision 2020 – Final Electoral Roll (Partwise)” link or “PDF Electoral Roll (Partwise)” link present in header
Direct link – https://ceo.maharashtra.gov.in/SearchList/
Afterwards, the Maharashtra CEO Voter List 2020 page will appear as shown below:-
Maharashtra CEO Voter List 2020 District Wise
Here candidates can select the “District”, “Assembly Constituency”, “Part” and then click at “Open PDF” button to open the Final PDF List of Voters as shown below:-
CEO Maharashtra Voter List PDF Electoral Roll
All the citizens can download this PDF electoral roll file and note down their voter slip number before going to polling booths for voting.

In this downloaded Maharashtra PDF Voter List with Photo, citizens will have to find their name manually and download Voter ID Card to enable themselves to caste their important vote. The counting of votes of general legislative assembly elections will be done on 24 October 2020.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Maharashtra Voter ID Card Download – Search Name Online in Voters List
The complete procedure to download Voter ID Card by finding name online in Maharashtra CEO Voters List is as follows:-

Visit the same official website at ceo.maharashtra.gov.in
At the homepage, click at the “Search Your Name in Final Electoral Roll 2020” link or “Final Electoral Roll 2020” link present in the header.
Direct Link – http://103.23.150.139/marathi/
Then the citizens can Search Your Name through ‘Name Wise’ or ‘ID Card wise’ method.

1. Name Wise Maharashtra Voter ID Card Download
Here candidates will have to click at the ‘Name Wise‘ option and then select the district or assembly option to download Maharashtra Voter ID Card through name wise method as shown below:-
Maharashtra Voter ID Card Download Name Wise
Here candidates can select the district name, first name, last name, middle name, enter the captcha and finally click at “Search” button to find name in CEO Voter List 2020 Maharashtra and download Voter ID Card.
2. Find Name Online in CEO Maharashtra Voter List 2020 – ID Card Wise
In order to find their name in the CEO Maharashtra Voter List 2020, people can even adopt another method i.e ID Card Wise. For this purpose, the citizens will have to select the “ID Card Wise” option as shown below:-
Maharashtra Voter List Name Find ID Card Wise
Here candidates can select the district, ID Card number, enter captcha and click at the “Search” button to find name online in the Voters List of Maharashtra. 
For more details, call 1800-22-1950 (Toll Free), control room 022-22040451/54 or visit the official website at http://www.ceomaharashtra.gov.in/. National Voter Helpline Number 1950 is also released and Voter helpline App is also available at google playstore for further assistance.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: ceo.maharashtra.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
