
In 2013, the state government of Maharashtra launched a scheme named “Manodhairya Yojana” for providing monetary aid to victims of rape, child sex abuse and acid attacks. Since then, the state government has been providing monetary compensation to such victims from Rs. 2 to Rs. 3 lakh. 
Recently, the Maharashtra government has increased the monetary compensation for victims from Rs. 3 lakh to Rs. 10 lakh under the Manodhairya Yojana. However, the amount to be paid as compensation would depend upon the crime faced by the victim. 
Though the compensation has been increased by Rs. 7 Lakh, the highest compensation would only be provided to those women and children who suffer from complete mental or physical disability after sexual assault or rape. In case of acid attach, the maximum compensation would be provided only if the face of the victim or any body parts sustain the visible damage.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Manodhairya Yojana in Maharashtra
This scheme makes many provisions regarding compensation for the relief of victims in emergency situation and providing set up support services such as counseling, medical aid and legal aid etc.
However, the state government has capped the monetary aid offered to rape and child abuse survivors at Rs. 1 lakh. In some cases, the government can offer the vocational training for victims to persuade them to be financially independent.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

A district level relief and rehabilitation board under the district collector as a chairman has been implementing the scheme in their respective districts across the state.
In 2013, out of all, highest number of cases registered for rape, acid attack and sexual assault on women were reported were in Maharastra (13827) by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB).
According to the official notification, the government is providing free plastic surgery of the acid attack survivors at government hospitals in the state. The government is going to construct a district and the state legal services committees to approve the expenditure of such treatment.
It becomes the responsibility of the government to provide safety to women throughout the country. The Government should endeavor to provide and put in place effective mechanism to provide safe environment for women across the country.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
