
Maharashtra govt. has approved a new High Voltage Distribution System Scheme to provide electricity connection to farmers. This HVDS Scheme will ensure proper power supply to farmers for efficient utilization of agricultural pumps. This govt. scheme will benefit around 2.24 lakh farmers in the state who are still waiting for new power connections.
Mahavitaran – State power distribution utility is going to take a loan of Rs. 2500 crore for HVDS Scheme. Maharashtra govt. will be the guarantor for this loan amount. Now farmers will get high voltage electricity without tripping effects. To reduce electricity losses, govt. will launch “One Farmer One Transformer” Scheme.
At present, Maharashtra govt. provides eight hours electricity supply to farmers on a daily basis. For this, there are approx. 700 feeders. But now, the state govt. has decided to launch High voltage distribution scheme to provide more electricity to farmers. HVDS Scheme will cost Rs. 5048 crore to the state exchequor. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

High Voltage Distribution System – HVDS Scheme
Till date, villages and farms share a common electricity connection for agriculture purposes which does not ensure adequate power supply to farmers. Maharashtra govt. is going to launch One Farmer One Transformer Scheme to provide separate electricity connections for villages and farms. For now, govt. has launched HVDS Scheme whose details are as follows:-

Govt. has approved High Voltage Distribution System (HVDS) Scheme to provide electricity connections and to ensure proper power supply to farmers for agriculture.
Now every 2 farmers will share a single transformers through HVDS lines under this scheme.
This scheme will reduce the line losses from 50% to 15% in some places.
Maharashtra govt. will launch this scheme on 15 August 2018 and on the same day, govt. will start providing transformers upto 31 March next year.
In the current scenario, around 10 to 15 farmers receive electricity through 65 to 100 Kilovolt-Ampere (kVA) lines. This leads to low voltage electricity and power tripping due to defects in transformers.
The state govt. has made budgetary allocation of Rs. 600 crore for Marathwada and Vidarbha Regions. Moreover, Maharavitran will also avail loan of Rs. 2500 crore for which state govt. will act as guarantor.
Under HVDS Scheme, the total expenditure for a single agricultural pump is expected to be approx. 2 lakh.

In the past few years, Maharashtra has become self sufficient in electricity and there is no power shortage. Govt. has already achieved 23,100 MW electricity production capacity to provide uninterrupted power supply. With this capacity, there are no complaints on load-shedding for industrialm residential and commercial customers.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

As on 1 April 2018, there are around 45 lakh farmers who have not paid their electricity bills worth Rs. 13,198 crore. So, the state govt. wants them to pay at least Rs 5,000 each to be able to strengthen the transmission system. Even the state govt. has stopped disconnecting electricity connections for the bill defaulters.
As a pro-farmer govt., around 4 lakh farmers have already received agricultural pumps connections in the previous 3 years. Each agricultural connection costs around Rs. 1.5 lakh. So, the state govt. is making all possible efforts to raise the standards of living of poor farmers.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
