
Maharashtra govt. has launched Asmita Yojana to distribute subsidized sanitary napkins to rural women. Under Asmita Scheme, govt. will provide sanitary pads to the adolescent girls at just Rs. 5. Accordingly, anyone can contribute a small amount of Rs. 182.40 (minimum) for one year and become an Asmita Sponsor. To become an Online Sponsor, candidates can fill the application form through the official website mahaasmita.mahaonline.gov.in
Asmita Scheme is for rural women and adolescent girls of various Zila Parishad (ZP) schools in the age group of 11 to 19 years. Accordingly, people can now become Asmita Sponsor and thus contribute towards health and hygiene for girls and women.
Maharashtra Asmita Scheme is a major step towards “Women Empowerment”. This scheme will protect the pride of women in the state and also reduce the dropout rates of school going female students.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Maharashtra Asmita Sponsor Online Application Procedure
Below is the complete procedure to apply online:-

Firstly visit the official website mahaasmita.mahaonline.gov.in
Then on the homepage, click the “Sponsor Online” tab in green present at the bottom or directly click this link
Afterwards, Asmita Sponsor Online Application Form will appear as follows:-
Asmita Sponsor Online Application Form
Here candidates have to fill all the details accurately and also must verify their number using OTP.
Finally candidates can click the “Pay Using Payment Gateway” button and then make payment of Rs. 182.50 to become an Asmita Yojana Sponsor.

Maharashtra State Rural Livelihood Mission (MSRLM) is the nodal agency for successful implementation of this scheme.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Maharashtra Asmita Yojana – Details
Under this scheme, all the adolescent girls studying in Zila Parishad schools in the age group of 11 to 19 years will get sanitary pads. Subsequently, govt. will provide a packet of 8 sanitary pads at a subsidized rate of Rs. 5. For this scheme, govt. will provide subsidy of Rs. 15.20 on each packet. Accordingly, all the female students will get Asmita Cards under this scheme.
Now people can make their contribution towards this good cause and become an Asmita Sponspor. To become an Online Sponsor, people must sponsor at least one girl child for an year. Thus Minimum Sponsoring Amount is 12 * 15.20 = Rs. 182.40 per annum.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
