


Table of Contents

How to Apply for PM Awas Yojana Demand Survey Housing SchemeDocuments Required for PM Awas Yojana SchemeThe scheme will be implemented in the following four categories.
Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is inviting applications for the allotment of affordable subsidized flats under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana.
The survey applications for PM Awas Yojana are being invited online on the official website at nmcnagpur.gov.in from 22 February to 22 March 2016. Three types of applicants are eligible to apply for the scheme as below

Slum Dwellers.
Economically Weaker Section (EWS) citizens with annual family income up to Rs. 3 Lakh.
Lower Income Group (LIG) citizens with annual family income up to Rs. 6 lakh.

PM Awas Yojana demand survey is being conducted to know the exact requirements of the flats and the subsidized home loans. Post the filling of applications, survey will be conducted in 178 slums out of 289. The implementation and execution of the scheme will be managed by the NMC Slum Rehabilitation Authority.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

How to Apply for PM Awas Yojana Demand Survey Housing Scheme
STEP 1:
The interested eligible candidates will have to go the “Housing for All Plan of Action” www.hfapoangp.com website to fill the online applications. The applicants can there check the guidelines, eligibility criteria and other details about the scheme.

STEP 2:
After filling up the application forms, the applicants will have to take its printout and submit it at the counters opened at all 10 zone offices.
STEP 3:
The applicants will have to pay a registration fee of Rs. 100 along with the application form submission.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The applicants should not have any house in his/her or dependent children’s name availed in any other Government Housing Scheme.
Documents Required for PM Awas Yojana Scheme
Applicants will need to submit the copies of the following documents along with the application form

Aadhar Card
Voter ID Card
Ration Card
Electric Bill
BPL Card
House Tax Receipt
Photo Pass ID
Self-Certificate / Affidavit of Income Proof
Certificate of house ownership from revenue authority of beneficiaries/native district.
Any other residential proof
2 Passport size color photographs

Citizens can contact on 0712-2570023 or 09326371449 for further details
The scheme will be implemented in the following four categories.

NMC to construct pucca houses for slum dwellers with a financial assistance of Rs 2 Lakh from central and state government, rest will be borne by the beneficiary.
Housing loan of up to Rs 6 lakh at interest of 6.5% from nationalized banks will be given to EWS and LIG citizens who owns a piece of land. EWS applicants will have to construct on an area up to 30 Sq.mt. while for LIG the area limit is 60 Sq.Mt.
NMC or NIT or MHADA will construct affordable housing projects with 250 flats of 30 Sq. Mt. each in association with private builders with a fund of Rs. 2.5 Lakh from central and state government.
In the last or 4th Category, a financial assistance of Rs. 2.5 Lakh will be given to EWS citizens to convert their temporary homes to Pucca or even for expansion.

The complete details about the scheme can be found at http://www.hfapoangp.com
IMG CREDIT: http://www.hfapoangp.com





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
