
महाराष्ट्र में नए राशन कार्ड हेतु ऑनलाइन आवेदन पत्र mahafood.gov.in पर भरें, राशन कार्ड सूची 2020 में अपना नाम शामिल करने के लिए जरुरी कागज़ात और पूरी प्रक्रिया जानें

Table of Contents

Maharashtra Ration Card Application Form PDF in MarathiApply Online for Maharashtra Smart Ration CardYellow Ration Card, Kesari Ration Card & White Ration CardList of Required DocumentsName Inclusion / Deletion FromsDistrict-Wise, Type-Wise Ration Cards as on 31st December 2014References
Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection Department, Maharashtra is inviting application forms for the Maharashtra Smart Ration Card 2020. Subsequently, people can apply for smart ration cards to avail various online (digital) services of the state govt. Accordingly, interested candidates can apply online for New Ration Card in Maharashtra through the official website mahafood.gov.in 
The new Digital ration card consists of the full name, address and photograph of the head of the family. Moreover, this ration card also contains a bar code and stores all the information of the other family members as well.
People can also check their name in the Maharashtra Ration Card List 2020 and can track their status of the application form through the official website.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Maharashtra Ration Card Application Form PDF in Marathi
The complete procedure to download new smart ration card application form has been specified below:-

Firstly visit the official website mahafood.gov.in
Subsequently on the homepage, candidates can click on the “डाउनलोड” link present on the left side.
Accordingly, candidates have to click the “FORM 1: Application For New Ration Card” link.
Afterwards, Maharashtra Ration Card Application Form will appear as shown below:-
Maharashtra Smart Ration Card Online Application Form
Now candidates have to take a printout of the application form and fill in all the necessary details.
Finally, candidates can submit this form along with the supporting documents to the concerned authorities.

Direct Download Link – Candidates can directly download the application form for Ration Card using the link given below:-
Download Maharashtra Ration Card Application Form (PDF)


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Apply Online for Maharashtra Smart Ration Card
Candidates can also apply online for the new Smart Ration Card in Maharashtra using the link below:
http://164.100.161.157/MH/epds
Yellow Ration Card, Kesari Ration Card & White Ration Card
Maharashtra state govt. has introduced different colors of Ration Card for different people. Accordingly, candidates will receive ration cards after fulfilling the criteria of Triple Ration Card Scheme (Yellow, Kesari and White). The eligibility criteria is as follows:-

Yellow Ration Card – This type of ration card is only for very very poor BPL families. The eligibility criteria is:-

The annual income of the family from all sources must not exceed Rs. 15000/- and IRDP should be in the list of the FY 1997-98.
Any of the family members of the applicants must not be a doctor, lawyer, architect or chartered Accountant (CA).
No person belonging to the applicant’s family shall be eligible for paying business tax, sales tax or income tax. 
Applicant’s family members must not possess a telephone and 4 wheelers.
Applicant must not possess land of 2 hectares, even in the name of their family members.
All Bidi workers, households of all Pardhi and Kolhati society and abandoned women will get this Ration Card.
Rural workers of closed mills, yarn mills and factories can apply for this yellow ration card.


Kesari Ration Card – Applicants must fulfill the following criteria to get this type of ration card:-

The annual income of the family of applicant from all sources must lie between Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 1 Lakh. 
Applicant’s family must not possess a 4 wheeler vehicle. However, this condition is relaxable for taxi drivers.
Applicant must not possess more than 4 hectares land in his name or even in the name of his family members.


White Ration Card – All the families having more than 1 lakh annual income, possessing 4 wheelers or any other family can get this White Ration Card under the Tricolor Scheme.

List of Required Documents
The following documents are necessary while submitting the Ration Card Application Form:-


List of Documents


PAN Card
Aadhaar Card


Voter Card
Recent passport Size Photograph (Head of Family)


Resident Certificate
Caste Certificate


Name Inclusion / Deletion Froms
Candidates can also download and apply for the inclusion of name in Ration Card, deletion of name from Ration Card, modification in Ration Card and duplicate Ration Card using the links given below:-
Click Here


Name Deletion (Decrease Unit or Skipping Name)
Click Here


Modification in Ration Card
Click Here


Duplicate Ration Card (Secondary Copy)
Click Here


Furthermore, all the candidates who have already applied for the Ration Card can track their status at the official website. Maharashtra govt. is going to provide various online and digital services through these smart cards.
Also Read: Mahaswayam Registration 2020
District-Wise, Type-Wise Ration Cards as on 31st December 2014
Below is the link to check the district-wise list of number of ration cards holders (all types of ration cards).
Ration Card List
References
— For any further query, candidates can call on the Helpline Number (Toll Free): 1800-22-4950





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: mahafood.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
