
The state govt. of Maharashtra has launched Atal Mahaaphan Vikas Abhiyan for cooperative sector. Subsequently, this scheme will help the co-operatives to start new businesses. Accordingly, this scheme will give a boost to the non-banking businesses throughout the state. Under this scheme, the state govt. will provide funds for 5000 cooperatives for setting up of new business (Startups) and will also guide the society. 
This scheme is named after the former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The primary objective of this scheme is ‘doubling the farmers income by 2022’. For this reason, govt. launched this new scheme to strengthen the rural sector. Accordingly, this Vikas Abhiyan will provide employment and a source of income generation for women and farmers. 
The cooperative sectors of state lacks funding and are facing huge crisis. Subsequently, govt. takes this initiative to provide financial support to this ailing sector. Moreover, cooperative sectors are backbone of the rural economy as most farmers depends on it and the state govt. wants that this sector should grow.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Details of Atal Mahaaphan Vikas Abhiyan
The important feature and highlights of this scheme are as follows:-

This scheme is launched in order to boost the non-banking businesses by providing financial aid to the cooperatives.
For this reason, the state govt. will perform the registration of Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies (PACS) who opt for non-banking businesses on the basis of Public, Cooperative Private Partnership (PCPP).
Subsequently, the main aim of this scheme is to double the income of farmers by the financial year 2022.
This Atal Mahaaphan Vikas Abhiyan will strengthen the cooperative sector, provide funds to the businesses. In addition to this, govt. will also encourage the people to contribute in expansion of non-banking business.
Furthermore, Maharashtra govt. will provide guidance to the women self-help groups and farmers for this initiative. This initiative will help in providing employment and generating income in rural areas.

Govt. has launched Atal Mahaaphan Vikas Abhiyan to provide boost to the rural population. Furthermore, the cooperative department has already received some applications for setting up of businesses.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});






(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
