
महाराष्ट्र आम आदमी बीमा योजना 2019 ऑनलाइन आवेदन / पंजीकरण पत्र अब sjsa.maharashtra.gov.in पर उपलब्ध है, महाराष्ट्र राज्य में आम आदमी बीमा स्कीम के लिए आवेदन करें

Table of Contents

Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana Online Application Form Maharashtra PDF DownloadMaharashtra Aam Admi Bima Yojana EligibilityMaharashtra Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana – Insurance & Scholarship Benefits
Maharashtra govt. is inviting Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana online application form at sjsa.maharashtra.gov.in. This is a centrally sponsored insurance & scholarship scheme for land less labourers in rural areas in the age Group of 18-59 years. People can now download Aam Admi Bima Yojana form pdf and make Aam Aadmi Insurance Scheme online apply to get their name included in the list of beneficiaries.
Aam Admi Bima Yojana Online Form Maharashtra PDF download is available at the offices of Collector / Tehsildar / Talathi. In case of death or permanent disability or partial disability, people gets insurance and scholarship benefits under Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana.
Interested old age people can apply online for Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana in Maharashtra and download application form PDF at the official website to avail insurance and scholarship scheme benefits.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana Online Application Form Maharashtra PDF Download
Aam Admi Bima Yojana is an ambitious insurance and scholarship scheme which is run by the Maharashtra state government. Social Justice and Special Assistance (SJSA) department is responsible for the successful implementation of Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana. Now people can make Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana Online Apply at sjsa.maharashtra.gov.in. The important features and highlights along with the Aam Admi Bima Yojana Maharashtra online apply process is given below:-


Scheme
Detailed Information


Name of the Scheme
Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana


Funding by
Centrally Sponsored


Scheme Objective
Insurance & scholarship


Beneficiary Category
All Category


Application Process
Under this scheme application is submitted to Collector Office / Tahsildar / Talathi


Category of Scheme
Insurance & scholarship


Contact Office
Collector Office / Tahsildar / Talathi


For complete details of the Aam Admi Bima Yojana for landless laborers Click Here Click Here


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Maharashtra Aam Admi Bima Yojana Eligibility
All the candidates must fulfill the following eligibility criteria to get their name included in Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana Maharashtra List:-

Aam Admi Bima Yojana is meant for land less labourers in rural areas in the age group of 18-59 years.
Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana premium charged under the scheme will be Rs. 200/- per annum per member. Out of this, 50% is subsidized by the State Govt. and Central Government.

Maharashtra Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana – Insurance & Scholarship Benefits
Here are the complete insurance and scholarship benefits of the Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana in Maharashtra:-

Natural Death – In case of natural death of a member before the terminal date, the sum assured Rs. 30,000 under assurance (in force) would be payable to the nominee.
Accident –

Death due to Accident – Rs. 75,000
Permanent total disability due to accident – Rs. 75,000
Loss of 2 eyes and 2 limbs in an accident – Rs. 75, 000
Loss of 1 eyes and 1 limbs in an accident – Rs. 37, 500



Moreover under Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana, scholarship of Rs. 100 per month each is given to the children studying in 9th to 12th standards. The maximum 2 children are given scholarship.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: sjsa.maharashtra.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
