


Table of Contents

Maharashtra Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Shetkari Karj Mafi Yojana List (3rd) DownloadMaharashtra Mahatma Jyotirao Phule Shetkari Loan Waiver Scheme Apply OfflineMaharashtra Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Loan Waiver Scheme Application ProcessOpposition of Maharashtra Jyotirao Phule Shetkari Karj Mukti Yojana
Mahatma Jyotirao Phule Shetkari Loan Waiver Scheme for farmers is announced by Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) govt. led by CM Uddhav Thackeray. The state govt. has waived off loans upto Rs. 2 lakh under Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Shetkari Loan Waiver Scheme in Maharashtra. All the crop loans outstanding upto 30 September 2019 are covered in this Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Kisan Karj Mafi Yojana. Check complete apply offline process to avail benefits of Mahatma Jyotirao Phule Shetkari Karj Mukti Yojana and to add name in list of beneficiaries. Also check name in 3rd list of farmer beneficiaries online at https://mjpskyportal.maharashtra.gov.in/
A new farm loan waiver scheme in Maharashtra was a pre poll promise of the Shiv Sena government. Chief Minister said “Crop loans outstanding till September 30, 2019, will be waived by MVA government. The upper ceiling for the amount is Rs two lakh. The scheme will be called Mahatma Jyotirao Phule loan waiver scheme”. As per the latest news, the 3rd phase Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Shetkari Karj Mafi Yojana list of beneficiaries will be published till end of July 2020.
Under Mahatma Jotirao Phule Farmers Debt Relief Scheme, a fund of Rs. 7,000 crore has been budgeted for the year 2020-21. Maharashtra government has approved to disburse Rs. 1,306 crore from this fund, excluding the funds disbursed earlier. So far, 25.77 lakh account holders in the state have been given debt relief of Rs 16,690 crore.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Maharashtra Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Shetkari Karj Mafi Yojana List (3rd) Download
The 3rd phase list of beneficiaries for the Maharashtra Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Shetkari Karj Mafi Yojana has now been published. People can now directly check their names in the Mahatma Jyotirao Phule Shetkari Karz Mafi Yojana list through the link below:-

https://mjpskyportal.maharashtra.gov.in/
The homepage to find name in the 3rd beneficiary list of farm loan waiver scheme in Maharashtra will appear as follows:-
mjpskyportal Maharashtra 3rd List Farmers 2020

This is the screenshot of the homepage which can be accessed using the above mentioned link. This is a dedicated portal for Mahatma Jyotirao Phile Kisan Karj Mafi Yojana. To check district wise farmer list for loan waiver scheme format, read this post.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The district wise Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Shetkari Karj Mafi Yojana Farmer List Online will be in the following format:-


Ahmadnagar


Akola


Amravati


Aurangabad


Bhandara


Beed


Buldana


Chandrapur


Dhule


Gadchiroli


Gondiya


Hingoli


Jalgaon


Jalna


Kolhapur


Latur


Mumbai City


Nagpur


Nanded


Nandurbar


Nashik


Osmanabad


Palghar


Parbhani


Pune


Raigarh


Ratnagiri


Sangli


Satara


Sindhudurg


Solapur


Thane


Wardha


Washim


Yavatmal


Mumbai Suburban


Maharashtra Mahatma Jyotirao Phule Shetkari Loan Waiver Scheme Apply Offline
Maharashtra govt. has announced a loan waiver of upto Rs. 2 lakh for farmers with cut off date of 30 September 2019. The Mahatma Jyotirao Phule Farmer Loan Waiver Scheme of the newly formed Shiv Sena, NCP & Congress coalition regime comes over two years after the Rs. 34,000 crore loan waiver announced by the then BJP-Sena government. Previously, the state govt. had launched the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Shetkari Samman Yojana (छत्रपती शिवाजी महाराज शेतकरी सन्मान सन २०१७ कर्जमाफी वितरण योजना) in 2017. 
CM Uddhav Thackeray has made this announcement in the legislative assembly on the last day of winter session of legislature. However, there was no word on how much financial burden the new Farm Loan Waiver Scheme in Maharashtra would put on the state treasury. Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Loan Waiver Scheme would require minimum documentation and would be hassle free.
Member of Parliament (MP), state legislators and government employees will not receive the benefit of Maharashtra Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Shetkari Karj Mukti Yojana. The new Kisan Karz Mafi Yojana will cover farmers who cultivate fruit trees and sugarcane as well as conventional crops. 

#नागपूर #विधिमंडळअधिवेशन शेतकऱ्यांना चिंतामुक्त करण्यासाठी ‘महात्मा जोतिराव फुले शेतकरी कर्जमुक्ती योजना-२०१९’ची मुख्यमंत्री उद्धव ठाकरे यांची विधिमंडळाच्या दोन्ही सभागृहात घोषणा. सप्टेंबर २०१९ पर्यंत या योजनेंतर्गत प्रतिशेतकरी दोन लाख रुपये या कमाल मर्यादेपर्यंत लाभ मिळणार
— CMO Maharashtra (@CMOMaharashtra) December 21, 2019
 
Maharashtra Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Loan Waiver Scheme Application Process
The state govt. will make a film for farmers to better understand the application procedure for Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Farm Loan Waiver Scheme. No person will have to stand in long queues unlike previous CSMSSY loan waiver scheme. All the farmers who wish to avail benefits of crop loan waiver scheme will need to approach their bank only with Aadhaar card.
Upon reaching the banks, Bank officials will take the person’s thumb print and the government will transfer the amount to the loan account of the farmer. In addition to this, it is important to note that no online form submission will be needed for Mahatma Jyotirao Phule Farm Loan Waiver Scheme 2020-21. Applicants will have to follow the offline application process to get their name enrolled in Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Shetkari karj Mukti Yojana list of beneficiaries.
Opposition of Maharashtra Jyotirao Phule Shetkari Karj Mukti Yojana
Former CM and current leader of opposition, Devendra Fadnavis alleged that the government had not fulfilled its original promise of full loan waiver. He questioned the govt’s failure to provide financial assistance of Rs. 25,000 per hectare to farmers who suffered losses due to unseasonal rain.
Fadnavis and other BJP MLAs then staged a walk out in protest of Mahatma Jyotirao Phule Farm Loan Waiver Scheme. Moreover, Devendra Fadnavis also alleged that the scheme will benefit very few farmers as most of them were already covered by his government’s CSMSSY 2017 scheme. He said that the govt. is cheating farmers as it is not offering full loan waiver.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/politics-and-nation/maharashtra-cm-announces-loan-waiver-upto-rs-2-lakh-for-farmers/articleshow/72915892.cms
SAVE AS PDF
