


Table of Contents

Objective of Jiyo Parsi Scheme Phase-2Procedure to take Benefit the Jiyo Parsi SchemeAbout the Jiyo Parsi Scheme Phase-1Reference
The Ministry of Minority Affairs has launched Jiyo Parsi Scheme Phase-2 at Mumbai. This scheme has been disseminated at various fields for addressing a large number of people from Parsi community.
After the successful implementation of Jiyo Parsi Scheme Phase-1, the declining birth rate of Parsi community saw an increment of 20 per cent. According to the 2001 Census, there is a growth in the country’s population by approximately 21% in the past decade while the number of Parsis declined by about 12% each decade since 1941.
Despite, the Parsi community is a very small minority community in India, nevertheless the Parsi community is one of the most liberal, aware towards education and has set an example of “peace and harmony”.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Objective of Jiyo Parsi Scheme Phase-2
The main purpose of the Jiyo Parsi scheme is to reverse the declining number of Parsi population and stabilize their population and increase the population of Parsis in India. The second phase will more focus on counselling and advocating people to produce more kids.
Many organizations like Parzor Foundation, Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Bombay Parsi Punchayet (BPP) and Federation of Zoroastrian Anjumans of India have also played a significant role to the success of this scheme. These organisations provide voluntary service to the needy people. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

These organization have been publicizing the scheme through outreach programmes like seminars, workshops, publicity, brochures, Parsi journals and other advocacy programmes and awareness campaign.
Procedure to take Benefit the Jiyo Parsi Scheme
To avail the benefit, the parsi couple has to submit the following documents.
1.Certificate of Income Proof from an appropriate authority in a particular state/ UT.
2.Identity Card such as Aadhar Card, Voter ID Card, PAN Card etc.
About the Jiyo Parsi Scheme Phase-1
The Jiyo Parsi Scheme Phase-1 was launched in 2013-14 as a special scheme for restriction in decline of population of Parsis in India. This scheme comprises of two components.
Two Components of Jiyo Parsi Scheme
The advocacy component focuses on early marriage encouragement, right treatment of medical problems, perfect time to become parents, and selecting the right treatment of infertility.
Financial assistance would be provided for investigation and detection of infertility under standard medical protocol as the medical component.
The Scheme also focuses on an outreach program to generate awareness among the Parsi population for ancestry enhancement.
These two component would be based on the following parameters:


Sr. No.
Annual Family Income From all source
Financial Assistance to be Provided


1
Rs. 10 lakhs & below 
100%


2
Rs. 10-15 lakhs
75%


3
Rs. 15-20 lakhs
50%


Reference
To get more information about the Jiyo Parsi Scheme click on this link  





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
