
Maharashtra govt. invites Textile Units online registration form at dirtexmah.gov.in. Now all the textile units in the state can register online at the official website of Directorate of Textiles. This would enable the textile units to avail the benefits of New State Textile Promotion Policy 2018-23. All the textile units can apply online for electric subsidy / power subsidy after making online registrations and get approval from Textiles department. 
Textile sector is a major contributor to GDP, industrial production, employment generation and export revenue generation. The textile industry contributes around 14% of India’s total industrial production, 4% of GDP and 13% of total exports. 
This textile sector is a major generator of employment opportunities for youths with 2nd largest industrial capacity and has employed more than 5 crore till date. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Maharashtra Textile Units Online Registration Form
Below is the complete procedure for the textile units to make online registration at the official portal of directorate of textiles, Maharashtra:-

Step 1 – Firstly visit the official website at dirtexmah.gov.in
Step 2 – At the homepage, click at the “Registration Form for Textile Unit section” or can directly this link. This will appear as shown below after opening:-
Registration Textile Units Maharashtra
Step 3 – Afterwards, applicant units can click at the “New Registration” as marked with number 1 in the figure above, then the new user general registration form for textile units will appear as follows:-
Maharashtra Textile Units Registration Form
Step 4 – Here all the textile units in the state can fill all the necessary details about the authority accurately and can upload Registration Certificate document and Passport Size photograph.

Finally, all the units will have to click at the “Submit 1st Part” button to complete the Maharashtra Textile Units Online Registration Process. Moreover, candidates can click at “Login for Incomplete Registration Forms” link to fill the remaining registration form.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Maharashtra Textile Units Electric Power Subsidy Form
After making online registrations as a new user, all the textile units can apply online for Power Subsidy. For this purpose, all the textile units in the state of Maharashtra can fill the Electric Subsidy Form, for which the procedure has been shown below:-

Firstly follow the same procedure as above till Step 2 or directly visit the official link – https://www.directortextilesmah.in/main.php
At the opened page, click at the “Electric Subsidy Form” link to open the textile units registration form for power subsidy as shown below:-
Power Subsidy Form Textile Units Maharashtra
Here all the registered textile units in Maharashtra can make login and fill the Electric Subsidy Form to avail power subsidy.

The official directorate of textiles website also contains the list of incomplete registration forms, list of pending forms for department approval and list of approved forms.

Textile units in Maharashtra can now register online for getting power subsidy on textile directorate website.To know the detailed process and how, watch this [email protected] @smritiirani pic.twitter.com/86fAE4QevO
— CMO Maharashtra (@CMOMaharashtra) January 19, 2019

Moreover, all the applicant textile units can see the New Maharashtra Textile Policy 2018 – 2023 to get more information about the govt. plans of promoting the textiles sector. For more details, visit the official website at http://dirtexmah.gov.in/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
