
Maharashtra government has launched a single online platform named MahaDBT portal for unprecedented expansion of direct benefits to the deprived and deserving students. This scholarship portal will reform government delivery system by re-engineering the existing process in welfare schemes. Now candidates can check complete list of scholarship schemes (dept. wise), fill the MahaDBT scholarship schemes online registration form and make login at mahadbtmahait.gov.in
Aaple Sarkar DBT (Direct Benefit Transfer) is a portal aims to transfer the benefits and subsidies of various social welfare schemes like E-Scholarships, Pension, Disaster etc. directly into the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. Any citizen of India can make registration for scholarships on this MahaDBT portal. The eligibility and disbursement will be according to the schemes as displayed.
Govt. of Maharashtra encourages all citizens to have aadhaar number so that benefits can be directly transferred to Aadhaar seeded bank account. However, applicants which does not possess aadhaar number can also apply online and fill registration form to avail scheme benefits.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

MahaDBT Scholarship Schemes Online Registration Form & Login
Below is the complete procedure to apply online and make online registrations for MahaDBT scholarship schemes:-

Firstly visit the official MahaDBT portal at mahadbtmahait.gov.in
At the homepage, click at the “New Applicant Registration” button present on the right side of the page or directly click this link
Aaple Sarkar MahaDBT Portal Registration
At the new page, registrations for scholarship schemes can be made online using aadhaar number (Aadhar based) or without aadhaar number (Non-aadhar based).
Aadhaar Based Registration – In case the applicant posses aadhaar number then, candidates can click at the “Yes” option, enter the “Aadhaar number” and verify OTP to open the MahaDBT scholarship online registration form which will appear as follows:-
MahaDBT Scholarship Online Registration Form (Aadhaar Based)
Here candidates can enter and verify all the details using OTP which includes e-mail ID verification and mobile number verification.
Non-Aadhaar Based Registration – In case the applicant posses aadhaar number then applicant can click at the “No” option, then 2 case arise. First is that applicant possesses “Aadhaar Enrollment ID” and second is that applicant does not possess “Aadhaar Enrollment ID”.
Non Aadhaar Based MahaDBT Scholarship Registration
Next, candidates can fill all the details, upload the supporting documents, upload photograph & signature (read instructions) and click at the “Register” button to complete the registration process and to get username and password.
MahaDBT Login – All the candidates can make Login to open their account.
MahaDBT Scholarship Schemes Applicant Login
Finally, applicants can complete the profile and apply online for scholarship scheme at MahaDBT portal.

To know the complete registration process in details, download the help manual, understand the complete process and apply online for MahaDBT scholarship schemes.	


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

List of All Scholarship Schemes at MahaDBT Portal
MahaDBT portal is now open for all applicants studying in any institute across the state. Students can now submit their scholarship application form online as per the applicable scheme on priority. The complete list of schemes (department wise) is being provided here:-


List of All Schemes (Department Wise)


Social Justice and Special Assistance Department


Government of India Post-Matric Scholarship


Post-Matric Tuition Fee and Examination Fee (Freeship)


Maintenance Allowance for student Studying in professional courses


Rajarshri Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Merit Scholarship


Post-Matric Scholarship for persons with disability


Tribal Development Department


Post Matric Scholarship Scheme (Government Of India )


Tuition Fee & Exam Fee for Tribal Students (Freeship)


Vocational Education Fee Reimbursement


Vocational Education Maintenance Allowance


Directorate of Higher Education


Rajarshi Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Shikshan Shulkh Shishyavrutti Scheme


Assistance to Meritorious Students scholarship – Junior Level


Education Concession to the Children of Ex-Servicemen


Eklavya Scholarship


State Government Open Merit Scholarship


Scholarship to Meritorious students possessing Mathematics /Physics


Government Vidyaniketan Scholarship


State Government Daxshina Adhichatra Scholarship


Government Research Adhichatra


Education Concession to the Children Freedom Fighter


Jawaharlal Nehru University Scholarship


Assistance to Meritorious Students scholarship – Senior Level


Dr. Punjabrao Deshmukh Vasatigruh Nirvah Bhatta Yojna (DHE)


Directorate of Technical Education


Rajarshi Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Shikshan Shulkh Shishyavrutti Yojna(EBC)


Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh Vastigruh Nirvah Bhatta Yojna(DTE)


School Education and Sports Department


Open Merit Scholarships in Junior College


Merit Scholarships for Economically Backward Class Students


VJNT,OBC and SBC Welfare Department


Post Matric Scholarship to VJNT Students


Tuition Fees and Examination Fees to VJNT Students


Payment of Maintenance Allowance to VJNT and SBC Students Studying in Professional Courses and Living in Hostel Attached to Professional Colleges


Rajarshi Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Merit Scholarship for students studying in 11th & 12th standard of VJNT & SBC category


Post Matric Scholarship to OBC Students


Post Matric Scholarship to SBC Students


Tuition Fees and Examination Fees to OBC Students


Tuition Fees and Examination Fees to SBC Students


Directorate of Medical Education and Research


Rajarshri Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Fee Reimbursement Scheme


Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh Hostel Maintenance Allowance


Minority Development Department


State Minority Scholarship Part II (DHE)


Scholarship for students of minority communities pursuing Higher and Professional courses(DTE)


Scholarship for students of minority communities pursuing Higher and Professional courses(DMER)


For more details, visit the official website https://mahadbtmahait.gov.in/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
