


Table of Contents

Farm Loan Waiver Maharashtra – Online Farmer Registration at csmssy.inEdit the CSMSSY 2017 Application FormCSMSSY or Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Shetkari Sanman Yojana Application Form Download from csmssy.in
Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Shetkari Sanman Yojana – 2017 (CSMSSY) or the Maharashtra Farm Loan Waiver Scheme 2017 is providing loan waiver to farmers in the state. The state government is inviting online applications for registration of farmers under the scheme for loan waiver. The online farmer registration/application can be done through the official website of CSMSSY 2017 at www.csmssy.in of Maharashtra Government.
The eligible farmers can register themselves online at csmssy.in or offline for the Maharashtra Farm Loan Waiver Scheme 2017. Below is the complete procedure to fill the online application form for farmer registration. Till 31st August 2017, 4607203 total number of registrations have been done by the farmers in Maharashtra on the CSMSSY portal while 3928529 farmers have applied for the farm loan waiver scheme.
UPDATE: (2 March 2018) – Maharashtra govt. is again inviting application form for Kisan Karj Mafi Yojana / CSMSSY 2018 from farmers whose name does not appears in the CSMSSY Green list / First List. This is the second chance for Farm Loan Waiver Scheme and farmers can apply between 1st March 2018 to 31 march 2018 – Click Here to Apply



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

View the district wise list of CSMSSY 2017 applicants and list of beneficiaries on the official website of CSMSSY at www.csmssy.in or click the below link
CSMSSY List of Applicant Farmers 2017
CSMSSY List of Beneficiaries
Farm Loan Waiver Maharashtra – Online Farmer Registration at csmssy.in
The eligible farmers can register themselves on the official online portal at https://csmssy.in using the below steps


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

STEP 1: Visit the official website of Aaple Sarkar at https://aaplesarkar.maharashtra.gov.in/en/.
STEP 2: Click on the link “Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Shetkari Sanman Yojana – Year 2017” or directly click www.csmssy.in.
STEP 3: A new website of CSMSSY will open after clicking the link, then click on “Register” button on the right side of the page or directly click csmssy.in.
STEP 4: On the new page, there are 4 steps as seen below to register as a farmer for CSMSSY farm loan waiver scheme 2017 in Maharashtra.
Maharashtra Farm Loan Waiver Scheme – CSMSSY 2017 Registration
STEP 5: If you have Aadhar card, then click on “Yes” button in the first step and click continue, else, if you do not have Aadhar card, clicking “No” will lead you to two options. If you have already applied for Aadhar card, check its status on UIDAI website or click “No” to fill all the details manually in the below prescribed application form.
Maharashtra Farm Loan Waiver Online Application Form
STEP 6: If have Aadhar card, you will be required to click “Yes” and then “Continue” button. You will be taken to step 2 where you have to choose authentication type form OTP and Biometric. Choose “OTP” for verifying details using OTP on your Aadhar registered mobile number, tick the consent box and enter your Aadhar and click “Send OTP” button.
STEP 7: An OTP will be sent to your Aadhar registered mobile number, enter the OTP and verify it. After verification, you will be taken to step 4 in the application process.
STEP 8: Fill all the necessary details and submit the application/registration form and proceed to last step.
STEP 9: Your application is now complete, you will be provided some registration/application ID. Keep a note of this.
Edit the CSMSSY 2017 Application Form
After receiving a lot of feedback from the applicants, the state government of Maharashtra has made the application form editable for all the applicants. If the applicant has made any mistake while submitting the application form, it can be edited later simply by logging in the user account on the same portal at www.csmssy.in.
CSMSSY or Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Shetkari Sanman Yojana Application Form Download from csmssy.in
The application for farmer registrations can also be done using the offline method by physically submitting the application forms at Aaple Sarkar Seva Kendras. The application form can also be downloaded from the official website at csmssy.in. The applicant should submit the filled application form along with the photocopies of the Aadhaar Card, Pan Card (If applicable), Bank Savings Passbook to any of the Aaple Sarkar Seva Kendra* nearby him starting 24th July, 2017.
The application forms for the CSMSSY or Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Shetkari Sanman Yojana are also available at following places 
a. Tehsil Office
b. Collector Office
c. Assistant Registrar Office
d. Gram Panchayats
e. Banks
f. Primary Agriculture Credit Societies
g. Aaple Sarkar Seva Kendra (CSC Centres)
Download the farm loan waiver application form
For more details about the scheme, please visit the official website of Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Shetkari Sanman Yojana – 2017 at csmssy.in.
Help Desk
The applicants can call at 18001025311 toll free or send an e-mail at [email protected] for any help/query related to registration procedure.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
