
महाराष्ट्र संजय गाँधी निराधार अनुदान योजना 2019 ऑनलाइन आवेदन / पंजीकरण पत्र अब sjsa.maharashtra.gov.in पर उपलब्ध है, महाराष्ट्र राज्य में संजय गाँधी निराधार अनुदान स्कीम के लिए आवेदन करेंMaharashtra govt. is inviting Sanjay Gandhi Niradhar Anudan Yojana online application form at sjsa.maharashtra.gov.in. This is a state sponsored pension scheme for destitute people below the age of 65 years. People can now download Sanjay Gandhi Niradhar Anudan Yojana form pdf and apply online to get their name included in the Sanjay Gandhi Niradhar Anudan Pension Scheme list of beneficiaries.
Sanjay Gandhi Niadhar Anudan Yojana Online Application PDF download is available at the offices of Collector / Tehsildar / Talathi. This pension scheme is a special financial assistance scheme for destitute citizens.
Interested old age people can apply online for Sanjay Gandhi Niradhar Anudan Yojana in Maharashtra and download application form PDF at the official website to avail pension scheme benefits.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Sanjay Gandhi Nirahar Anudan Yojana Online Apply Maharashtra
Sanjay Gandhi Niradhar Anudan Yojana is an ambitious pension scheme which is run by the Maharashtra state government. Social Justice and Special Assistance (SJSA) department is responsible for the successful implementation of Sanjay Gandhi Niradhar Anudan Pension Scheme. Now people can apply online at sjsa.maharashtra.gov.in. The important features and highlights along with the Sanjay Gandhi Niradhar Anudan Yojana Maharashtra online apply process is given below:-


Scheme
Detailed Information


Name of Scheme
Sanjay Gandhi Niradhar Anudan Yojana


Funding by
State Sponsored


Scheme Objective
Financial Assistance / Pension Scheme


Beneficiary Category
All Category


Application Process
Under this scheme application is submitted to Collector Office / Tahsildar / Talathi


Category of Scheme
Special Assistance / Pension Scheme


Contact Office
Collector Office / Tahsildar / Talathi


For details of the Sanjay Gandhi Niradhar Anudan Yojana for destitute people – Click Here


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Sanjay Gandhi Niradhar Anudan Yojana Maharashtra Eligibility & Benefits
Under this special assistance scheme for destitute people, Rs. 600 per month is given to a single beneficiary. In case there are 2 or more beneficiaries in the family, then Rs. 900 per month is given. However, the annual income of the family must not exceed Rs. 21,000. Here is the complete eligibility criteria for Sanjay Gandhi Niradhar Anudan Yojana for destitute people. To avail pension scheme benefits, destitute people below 65 years of age must fall in any of the below mentioned categories:-

Orphan Children
All types of handicapped
Person suffering from critical illness such as T. B. cancer, AIDS and leprosy
Destitute widows including those of farmers who committed suicide
Destitute divorced women and women in process of divorce
Women freed from prostitution
Outraged women

For complete details, visit the official page – Sanjay Gandhi Niradhar Anudan Yojana PDF





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: sjsa.maharashtra.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
