


Table of Contents

Maharashtra Pension Scheme for Senior Journalists & Supplementary Demands1. Acharya Balshastri Jambhekar Sanman Yojana2. Supplementary Demands – Allocation
Maharashtra government has tabled the implementation of a Rs. 15 crore Pension Scheme for Senior Journalists in the Legislative assembly. This scheme is to be named as “Acharya Balshastri Jambhekar Sanman Yojana”. Under this scheme, the state govt. will provide Rs. 10,000 to each senior journalist subject to the eligibility. 
All the senior journalists who have worked at-least 20 years in their fields and are 60 years or above in age are eligible for this scheme. The state govt. has made this provision under the grants-in-aid (non-salary) to the Director of Publicity.
Govt. has also tabled supplementary demands worth Rs 11,445 crore on 1st day of monsoon session.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Maharashtra Pension Scheme for Senior Journalists & Supplementary Demands
The state govt. has decided to roll-out a new pension scheme for senior journalists along with the allocation of budgetary provisions for supplementary demands:-
1. Acharya Balshastri Jambhekar Sanman Yojana

Scheme is named as Acharya Balshastri Jambhekar Sanman Yojana
Each Senior Journalists will get Rs. 10,000 per month.
The state govt. has made a provision of Rs. 15 crore for this scheme.
All the senior journalists who have an experience of 20 years or above and their age is at-least 60 years can avail scheme benefits.

The state govt. has also tabled supplementary demands in the legislative Assembly for the overall development of the state.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

2. Supplementary Demands – Allocation
Here we are providing you the data which the state minister has tabled on the floor of Legislative Assembly:-


Acharya Balshastri Jambhekar Sanman Yojana
Rs. 15 crore


National High Speed Rail Corporation (NHSRCL)
Rs. 250 crore (State share for special purposes Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project)


Development & Recarpeting of airstripsof Karad and Chandrapur airports
Rs. 5 crore


Purchase of 2 helicopters for air travel of VVIPs
Rs. 159.63 crore


CCTV Projects (Surveillance System) in Nagpur, Nashik, Aurangabad and other cities
Rs. 35 crore


Provision for Basic Infrastructure Facilities for Naxal-Hit Gadchiroli district
Rs. 5 crore by Center


Expenses associated with commission of inquiry into Bhima Koregaon violence
Rs. 62 lakh


Provision for Victims of riots at Bhima Koregaon and Sanaswadi in Pune district
Rs. 7.9 crore


Urban Development Department
Rs. 1686.10 crore


Subordinate debt, State government equity
Rs. 660.73 crore


Mumbai Urban Transport Project (MUTP) II
Rs. 189.26 crore


Municipal Corporations
Rs. 190 crore


Municipal Councils
Rs. 546.47 crore


Road Repair Work in rural areas
Rs. 100 crore


MLA / MLC Local Development Program
Rs. 220.31 crore


Afforestation Drive / Tree Planting
Rs. 274.60 crore


Publicity of Afforestation Drive
Rs. 30 crore


rehabilitation of families involved in the business of horse-drawn carriages in Mumbai city
Rs. 6.63 crore


State Cooperation department
Rs. 1853.52 crore


Public Health Department for Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojna
Rs. 769.02 crore


Hike in Moratorium for Anganwadi Workers
Rs. 493.64 crore


Integrated child Development Services Scheme
Rs. 500 crore







(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
