
Maharashtra govt. has announced to provide Karj Mafi to all the small and marginal farmers who have defaulted on their loans taken between FY 2001-09. Now under CSMSSY 2018 (Farm Loan Waiver Scheme), govt. will include around 4 lakh more farmers. These farmers have not taken the benefit of loan waiver scheme of FY 2008 and also were not included in the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Shetkari Sanman Yojana.
Previously, CSMSSY Debt Waiver Scheme only included the loans taken by the farmers between FY 2009 to 2016. Moreover, the state govt. is also giving second chance to the farmers who have not registered yet can make new user registration and apply for complete Karz Mafi.
The last date for closure of registration is now set at 20 May 2018. So, interested candidates can make online registration at the official website csmssy.in 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

CSMSSY 2018 for Loan Defaults of FY 2001-09
Maharashtra govt. has started the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Shetkari Sanman Yojana to waive off loans to farmers taken between the FY 2009 to 2016. But there are certain small and marginal farmers who are still not covered under CSMSSY Scheme. These farmers still have to lead a miserable life. So, the state govt. has decided to include these farmers also in the CSMSSY 2018.
All the farmers who have not availed the previous loan waiver scheme of 2008 and are also not included in the current CSMSSY 2018 Scheme will now get a chance. To avail this chance, all the farmers needs to make online registration at the official loan waiver / karj mafi portal – csmssy.in


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

All the farmers who have made registration will have to wait till the time their documents and loan statement is verified by the authorities. After successful verification, farmers will be able to check their name in the CSMSSY Green List 2018. The total number of beneficiary farmers who will avail this loan waiver is around 4 lakh however the exact number of beneficiaries are still not known.
Other Decisions in the Cabinet Meeting
The other important decisions includes the following things:-
— Maharashtra govt. will set up a labour insurance society to provide medical service to the labourers / workers.
— For this reason, the state govt. will transfer the Rs. 1200-1300 crore fund (received from centre) to the proposed society to finance the insurance scheme.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
