
Shiv Sena led Maharashtra govt. is going to start Rs. 10 Mobile Meal Canteen Scheme. Under this Shiv Thali Scheme, Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) govt. will provide food to poor people at subsidized price of ten rupees. This subsidized Rs. 10 Meal Canteen Scheme to be called Hinduhridaysamrat Balasaheb Thackeray Anna-rath. 
The state govt. of Maharashtra will launch a pilot project of “Rs 10 Meal Scheme” in Mulund. The event to mark the official launch of Rs. 10 Mobile Meal Canteen Scheme will coincide with Dr Ambedkar Mahaparinirwan Divas. The scheme is part of the MVA government’s official common minimum programme.
Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar will inaugurate the Hinduhridaysamrat Balasaheb Thackeray Anna-rath.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Maharashtra Rs. 10 Meal Canteen Scheme (Shiv Thali)
The state govt. of Maharashtra led by Shiv Sena will launch a pilot project of the highly-anticipated Rs. 10 Meal Scheme for the poor at Mulund on 6 December 2019. The affordable mobile meal canteen scheme is a part of MVA govt’s common minimum programme and will formally be launched sometime next month. The Balasaheb Thackeray Anna-rath launch event will coincide with Dr. Ambedkar Mahaparinirwan Divas or the 63rd death anniversary of Dr BR Ambedkar. This Rs. 10 Mobile Meal Canteen Scheme is launched in view of demands from poor sections of society in Mulund. 
The Hinduhridaysamrat Balasaheb Thackeray Anna-rath is a vehicle from where the Rs. 10 meal will be served to the needy and marginalised people. The meal will be known as Shiv Thali and would include 3 chapatis, a vegetable dish, a portion of rice-dal/curry and a sweets preparation. The menu for Rs. 10 Meal Canteen Scheme will be changed every day. The Mulund scheme will be run by Shetty’s Shree Swami Charitable Trust and as per the response from public, this scheme will be extended to other areas.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

This Rs. 10 Meal Canteen Scheme will follow the similar lines of Tamil Nadu govt’s Amma Unavagam / AmmaCanteen and AP govt’s Anna Canteen Scheme. However, AP YSR govt. had closed TDP’s flagship Anna Canteens due to non-renewal of contract with the Akshaya Patra Foundation. As per reports, the scheme might be renamed as Rajanna and launched again under new management of CM Jagan Mohan Reddy.
In Karnataka also, the Indira Canteen is on the verge of closing down due to lack of adequate funds. As per the local media reports, Bengaluru civic body had warned that Indira Canteens may be forced to shut down the food outlets by the first week of September if they do not get adequate funds from the canteen.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: timesnownews.com/india/article/shiv-senas-subsidised-rs-10-mobile-meal-canteen-scheme-to-be-called-balasaheb-thackeray-anna-rath/523641
SAVE AS PDF
