
Maharashtra govt. is soon going to start Open School Board (OSB) Scheme. Subsequently, OSB Scheme will provide an opportunity to left-out candidates to complete their school education outside the formal school education system. Accordingly students, sportsmen and other candidates who miss-out or did not get the opportunity to appear for school exams can avail benefits.
Maharashtra state cabinet has approved this OSB scheme on 13 March 2018. Maharashtra education department will start this state open board on the lines of open university.
This Open School Education Board will enable students to study and complete their basic education. Furthermore, candidates will also get certificates after the completion of their school education.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Maharashtra Open School Board (OSB) Scheme – Details
The important features and highlights of this open school education board scheme are as follows:-

All the people who are deprived of mainstream education or have drop-out due to any reason can avail benefits of OSB scheme. Such people can complete their education via OSB scheme.
Subsequently most adult workers and housewives will get an opportunity to appear for school exams under OSB Scheme.
This Open School Board will function under the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education.
In addition to this, syllabus of Maharashtra Open School Board will be different from regular syllabus of Secondary Education Board.
Subjects – OSB board will have the following subjects:-

Agriculture
Economics
Science and Technology
Bakery Production
Screen Printing
Information Technology and Cooperatives


OSB will also consists of Marathi, English, Hindi, Urdu, Gujarati and Sanskrit languages.

Education is the most important part of one’s life as it develops and foster them. Moreover, people can get job opportunities after proper education. However, some deprived sections of the society does not have access to quality education. Even some regular school students have to drop-out and leave their studies due to various personal reasons.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Accordingly, this Open School Board scheme will enable them to complete their school education without even going to schools. Subsequently this open school education board is for all candidates who missed the opportunity to complete their school education. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
