
The state government of Maharashtra has launched Chief Minister Krishi Sanjivani Yojana – 2017 or Mukhyamantri Krishi Sanjivani Yojana amnesty scheme for 41 lakh farmers of the state. The objective of this amnesty scheme is to give forgiveness for those farmers who are unable to pay their energy bills. Through this scheme, the state government will recover dues of Rs. 10,890 crore from 41 lakh farmers.
According to the Energy department, govt. will waive the penalty and interest of Rs. 8,164 crore on the farmers of the state. Total pending electricity bills of Rs. 19,272 crore will be recovered through the Chief Minister Krishi Sanjivani Yojana. 
In addition, the farmers who have failed to pay their pending electricity bills since 2012 will get huge benefits under the scheme. However, the benefit of Mukhyamantri Krishi Sanjivani Yojana will be available only if each consumer including farmers pay their present energy bill.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Chief Minister Krishi Sanjivani Yojana – 2017
The state government has appealed that each farmer has to pay their present bill within seven days to avail the scheme benefits. If the farmers fails to pay their dues then their electrical connection will be disconnected. The energy department did not disconnect the electricity connections of farmers for last three years hence, the pending amount has reached the alarming stage.
The Power holding company of the state has failed to purchase the electricity and provide it at minimum rates. Therefore, the state government has launched Chief Minister Krishi Sanjivani Yojana to recover Rs. 10,890 crore dues from 41 lakh farmers.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Furthermore, the state government has admitted that the farmers who have their pending bills below Rs. 30,000, they can pay their balance in five installments. Farmers with pending bill amount of above Rs. 30,000 can pay their balance in ten installments.
Mukhyamantri Krishi Sanjivani Yojana – Installments
Farmers with up to Rs. 30,000 of dues can pay their pending bills as follows –
First installment – December 2017
Second installment – March 2018
Third installment – June 2018
Fourth installment – September 2018
Last or fifth installment – December 2018
The farmers who have to pay their pending bills above Rs 30,000, can pay their dues in an interval of 45 days in 10 installments. Moreover, If the farmers fail to avail the benefit of Mukhyamantri Krishi Sanjivani Yojana amnesty scheme, then they have to pay the pending dues along with interest and penalty. The department will establish several special camps for the farmers to create the awareness about the clear their dues under the scheme. 
Moreover, the government has informed that each farmer of the state will get a solar power from next year under Chief Minister Saur Krishi Vahini Yojana. By using solar power, the farmers will get electricity at lesser rates. Subsequently, an identified group of 200 farmers will get 1 MW solar power while a group of 4,000 farmers will get 20 MW solar power. Therefore, the government will acquire land on rent from farmers for next 15 years for the installation of the solar power panels.
Chief Minister Krishi Sanjivani Yojana 2017
According to the notification, the state government has distributed electricity meters to 24.41 lakh farmers while 15.41 lakh farmers have received the power connection without meter.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
