
Maharashtra govt. is going to launch Free Chemotherapy Facility Scheme for cancer patients. Health department will make this facility available at district level for free cancer treatment in maharashtra from June 2018. In the first phase, 10 districts namely Nagpur, Gadchiroli, Pune, Amravati, Jalgaon, Nashik, Wardha, Satara, Bhandara and Akola will possess these facilities at district hospitals.
After successful roll-out of this scheme in these 10 districts, govt. will include all the remaining districts in the next phase. There is no restriction on anyone to get this facility absolutely free of cost.
Latest Update – The first phase of Maharashtra Cancer Treatment Scheme will start from 1 July 2018.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

This scheme will surely bring a reduction in the deaths occurring in the state due to cancer disease with high chemotherapy cost. 
Free Chemotherapy Facility Scheme – Features
The important points regarding the launch of this free cancer treatment scheme in maharashtra are as follows:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Maha Govt. will launch this scheme to provide chemotherapy absolutely free of cost to help the poor and needy ones.
The name of the 10 districts for first phase are – Nagpur, Gadchiroli, Pune, Amravati, Jalgaon, Nashik, Wardha, Satara, Bhandara and Akola.
This facility will start at the district hospitals of 10 districts from the month of June this year.
All the Physicians and nurses at district hospitals will be given a 3 week training at “Tata Hospital” in Mumbai in the month of May.
Moreover, all the patients will get a 6 week course in Tata Hospital. All the patients needs to come to Mumbai every week for this course.
For minimizing the problems faced by the patients while travelling to Mumbai, Health dept. will provide these facilities at the district level also absolutely free of cost.

Once the Free Chemotherapy Scheme is successfully implemented in these 10 districts, then govt. will launch this scheme in the remaining districts of Maharashtra.
Need For Free Chemotherapy Scheme
As per the reports of National Cancer Patient Registration Programme, around 11 lakh new cancer patients are detected across the country. If we add the old cancer cases with the newly detected cases, then the total number of cancer patients reaches to 28 lakh per year. 
All those people suffering from this dangerous disease cannot afford the chemotherapy cost. Around 5 lakh patients die every year due to cancer. So, govt. has taken this initiative to provide chemotherapy absolutely free of cost. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
