
The State government of Maharashtra is going to launch “Chief Minister Agricultural Solar Feeder Scheme” or “Mukhyamantri Saur Krishi Vahini Yojana” in the state. Under the scheme, the government will provide solar feeders to ensure 12-hour power supply for agro pumps across the state. The objective of the scheme is to provide power to farmers for at least 12 hours a day at cheaper rates.
According to the notification, the government has informed that the earlier distribution of portable solar pumps had not worked out properly because of insufficient response from the farmers of the state. Therefore, the government is now planning solar power generation through small plants. 
Initially, the solar power will be distributed to only dedicated feeders. Currently, the government is implementing solar power generation projects in Solapur and Latur on Public Private Partnership basis.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Maharashtra CM Agricultural Solar Feeder Scheme
The farmers of the Maharashtra state will get cheap and assured electricity across the state through solar feeder scheme in next three years. Recently, the CM of Maharashtra performed the Bhumipujan (ground breaking ceremony) for first solar project under the ’Chief Minister Agricultural Solar Feeder’ scheme at Ralegan Siddhi.
Agricultural Solar Feeder Scheme
Moreover, the govt. is going to install the solar power plants to ensure continuous supply of electricity in all weather to the farmers. The farmers will get electricity at Rs. 1.20 per unit. The tender process for this scheme is completed and solar panels installation process of 500 MW will be completed by March 2018. Govt. will officially launch Mukhyamantri Saur Krishi Vahini Yojana in the month of April 2018.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Mukhyamantri Saur Krishi Vahini Yojana
The state government is going to obtain agricultural land from farmers on rent for the duration of 15 years for the installation of the solar power panels. Solar Power is a renewable source of energy and available at affordable rates. Therefore, government is giving more focus on setting up of solar panels across the state. The Mukhyamantri Saur Krishi Vahini Yojana will help in reducing input cost and enhance production of agriculture product.

#ecofriendly CM @Dev_Fadnavis performed e-launching of various projects under Mukhyamantri Saur Krushi Yojana (मुख्यमंत्री सौर कृषी योजना) in Mantralaya, Mumbai. These include #solar projects, electric vehicles charging stations and power connections to agricultural pumps. pic.twitter.com/gyPLOELDXw
— CMO Maharashtra (@CMOMaharashtra) October 16, 2018

The state government of Maharashtra has recently launched mahalabharthi.in portal where the state residents can check their eligibility for various schemes and details.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
