
Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray has announced the launch of Shiv Bhojan Yojana for poor people across the state. In this Rs. 10 Meal Canteen Scheme, the state govt. will provide Shiv Thali to needy one at price of just ten rupees. This Shiv Food Scheme is named after the Shivaji Maharaj who was the king of the poor. Hinduhridaysamrat Balasaheb Thackeray Anna-rath would be operational in Maharashtra after launch of Shiv Meal Scheme. 
The state govt. of Maharashtra will initially launch Shiv Bhojan Yojana for Rs. 10 from 50 places. In the next phase of Shiv Rs. 10 Meal Scheme, the state govt. will expand the scheme to other areas. 
Latest Update – In the wake of nation-wide Coronavirus (COVID-19) lockdown, the state govt. of Maharashtra has decided to provide meals at Rs. 5 to 1 lakh people daily. This scheme will run for the 3 months and will ensure that poor people particularly daily wagers will not remain hungry. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Shiv Thali Scheme was a pre poll promise of Shiv Sena which is now implemented by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) govt. led by coalition of Shivsena-Congress-NCP. 
Maharashtra Shiv Bhojan Yojana 2020 (Rs. 10 Thali Scheme)
Shiv Bhojan Yojana is announced by the Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray to provide food to poor people at subsidized price of ten rupees. This subsidized Rs. 10 Meal Canteen Scheme to be implemented by Hinduhridaysamrat Balasaheb Thackeray Anna-rath which would be started by the government. The Shiv Food Thali Scheme will start from the next year i.e 2020. The Rs. 10 Shiv Meal Scheme is part of the MVA government’s official common minimum programme (CMP).


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The Hinduhridaysamrat Balasaheb Thackeray Anna-rath are those vehicles from where the Rs. 10 Shiv Meal Yojana will be implemented. These food vans will serve meals at subsidized prices to needy and marginalised people. The meal would be known as Shiv Thali and include 3 chapatis, a vegetable dish, a portion of rice-dal/curry and a sweets preparation. The menu for Shiv Bhojan Yojana will be changed every day. 
This Shiv Thali Scheme will follow the similar lines of Tamil Nadu Amma Canteen, AP Anna Canteen Scheme & Karnataka Indira Canteen Scheme. 

"आमच्या सरकारने असं ठरवलं आहे की गोरगरिबांना १० रुपयांमध्ये शिवभोजन देण्याची योजना आम्ही सुरू करत आहोत."-मुख्यमंत्री मा. श्री. उद्धव बाळासाहेब ठाकरे pic.twitter.com/ZBoHJSrpLf
— Office of Uddhav Thackeray (@OfficeofUT) December 21, 2019
 
This scheme will not discriminate any person on the basis of their caste, colour and religion. All the poor people who are needy or hungry can take benefits of this Shiv Bhojan Yojana. 
Also Read – Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Shetkari Kisan Karz Mafi Yojana 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
