
Maharashtra govt. (Aaple Sarkar) is inviting online applications for Water Resources Machinery Based Interest Subsidy Scheme. Subsequently, Educated Unemployed, Farm Producing Company, Unemployed Cooperative Society, Group Farming, Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies can make registration at the Aaple Sarkar Portal. Accordingly, interested candidates can make online registration at official website of Aaple Sarkar aaplesarkar.maharashtra.gov.in
Aaple Sarkar is providing Interest Subsidy on the Water Resources (Earth-Movers) Machinery. Moreover, this scheme will help farmers and cooperatives to conserve water resources and maintain ground water level.
This scheme will boost agricultural activities in the state. Accordingly, candidates can apply online for the holistic development of Maharashtra before 31 January 2018. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Water Resources Machinery – Interest Subsidy Scheme Registration
Below is the complete procedure to register online:-

Firstly visit the official website aaplesarkar.maharashtra.gov.in
Subsequently on the homepage, click the “जलसमृद्धी (अर्थमूव्हर्स) यंत्रसामुग्री व्याज अर्थसहाय्य योजना” link
Accordingly, click the “New User Registration” link. Afterwards, Interest Subsidy Scheme Registration Form will appear as shown below:-
Maharashtra Aaple Sarkar Water Resources Machinery Based Interest Subsidy Scheme
Subsequently, candidates have to select “लाभार्थी प्राधान्यक्रम” from the drop down menu, Name, Address, District, Taluka, Village, Taluka and click the Register button at the bottom to complete the Registration Process.
Next candidates can Login using the “Mobile number” as Username and “Password”.
Henceforth, candidates have to fill the Application form in which he has to enter the Applicant’s Details, Bank Details and details of the purchasing device.
Finally, candidates can submit the completed application form to avail Interest Subsidy on the device.

For more details on filling the application form for purchase of Water Resources Machinery, candidates can see the User Manual – Click here


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Furthermore, candidates will have to sign a declaration that applicant will follow all the Terms and conditions of the Department of Soil and Water Conservation, Maharashtra govt. All the candidates needs to make online registration before 31 January 2018.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
