


Table of Contents

Magel Tyla Shettale Online RegistrationMagel Tyala Shettale – Eligibility CriteriaMagel Tyla Shettale Application StatusMagel Tyla Shettale Scheme – PDFMagel Tyla Shettale – Helpline
Magel Tyala Shettale (मागेल त्याला शेततळे) or Farm Ponds on Demand is one of many schemes of Maharashtra government to provide a source of water to farm land. The objective of the scheme is that each and every farmer in the state gets a permanent source of water.
The state government has allocated Rs. 204 crore in its budget to implement the scheme. The benefit of the Magel Tyala Shettale scheme will be transferred directly in the bank accounts of farmers for 51,369 farm ponds. According to the notification, the eligible farmer will get Rs. 50,000 directly in their bank accounts to construct a pond in their farm land.
Under Magel Tyala Shettale (मागेल त्याला शेततळे) pond subsidy scheme, the state government has made a provision under which every farm pond project will be geo-tagged to monitor the progress of work. So far, government has received 2,83,620 applications till date for farm ponds from farmers. The application forms for the farm pond subsidy scheme are being invited through the official website at egs.mahaonline.gov.in.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Magel Tyla Shettale Online Registration
Interested candidates can do the online registration for Magel Tyala Shettale (मागेल त्याला शेततळे) Farm Pond Subsidy Scheme by following the below procedure:
Interested applicant can visit at official website of Aaple Sarkaar at https://aaplesarkar.maharashtra.gov.in/en/ or click this linkNow click on मागेल त्याला शेततळे link to reach to the Magel Tyala Shettale website for online registration.Users can also directly reach the registration page using the following link https://egs.mahaonline.gov.in/Registration/Registration.After the registration, the candidates can login with their USER ID and PASSWORD for filling up the application form for Magel Tyala Shettale Farm Pond Subsidy Scheme.Interested candidates can also contact nearest Panchayat or taluka office for the registration under the scheme.
Magel Tyala Shettale – Eligibility Criteria
The farmer should be the owner of at least 0.60 hectare farm land.All farmers whether group of farmers and individual farmers are eligible for this scheme.
Magel Tyla Shettale Application Status
The application status of the Magel Tyla Shettale scheme can also be tracked on the official website at the same link at egs.mahaonline.gov.in. Below is the direct link to check the status of the application


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Track Status of Shettale Scheme.Below is the snapshot of the track status page of the official website
Shettale Scheme Application Status
The registered farmers can check the status of their online application by filling up their application number on the above given link.
Magel Tyla Shettale Scheme – PDF
The detailed order / guidelines PDF of the Magel Tyla Shettale scheme can be downloaded from the following link.

https://egs.mahaonline.gov.in/PDF/Shetatle.pdf

Magel Tyla Shettale – Helpline
For any question about the scheme, you can call the toll free helpline number of the concerned department at 1800 120 8040.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
