
Maharashtra govt. has launched Atal Construction Workers Awas Yojana (Rural) 2019 for construction labourers living in rural areas. Under construction workers housing scheme in Maharashtra, govt. will provide financial assistance of Rs. 1.5 lakh to laborers. This amount could be used to construct pucca houses or to convert existing homes into pucca homes. 
Maharashtra Labour department launches this housing scheme for construction labour as a part of the flagship Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) Gramin. Housing department of Maharashtra state is going to be nodal agency for the implementation of Atal Construction Workers Awas Yojana 2019.
The state govt. is also actively considering to provide additional assistance for the purchase of land.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Maharashtra Atal Construction Workers Awas Yojana 2019
Just before the Lok Sabha elections and Maharashtra assembly elections, the state labour department has launched housing scheme for construction workers in rural areas. Maharashtra Atal Construction Workers Awas Yojana (Rural) is going to provide financial assistance of Rs. 1.5 lakh to build new homes or reconstruction of existing homes. The eligibility criteria is given here:-

All the construction workers must be registered with the Maharashtra Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (MBOCWWB).
The registration of construction workers with MBOCWWB must be for a duration of more than 1 year.
All the construction labourers must not already possess pucca houses.

State Management Room for rural housing of the Rural Development dept. could be entrusted in order to successfully implement the scheme.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Maharashtra Construction Workers Housing Scheme (Rural) – Details
All the eligible construction labourers who follows the above mentioned eligibility criteria would be able to avail the scheme benefits. The houses under the Construction Workers Housing Scheme (Rural) Maharashtra will have 269 sq.ft in carpet area. All the beneficiaries can build larger houses but for this, beneficiaries would have to bear their own cost. 
As per the official labour department reports, there are approx. 26 lakh construction workers in the state. Out of this, around 12.5 lakh construction workers are registered with MBOCWWB. Out of these registered workers, there are approx. 4 lakh construction workers in rural areas who don’t own a pucca house. The state govt. has now invited applications from these construction workers. 
Maharashtra govt. will give approvals to these applications after successful verification of their documents. The state govt. expects these homes to be build within 6 to 8 months. Moreover, there are some construction workers who does not have their own land. So, govt. is considering a proposal to provide Rs. 50,000 to buy land to build a house.
The Maharashtra Construction Workers Federation (MCWF) has termed the financial assistance as inadequate and it is difficult for workers to build house in that sum. The state govt. should increase the total sum in order to ensure that a large number of construction workers gets benefit of Atal Construction Workers Awas Yojana (Rural) 2019.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
