


Table of Contents

Bhavantar Bharpayee Yojana Online Registration FormWhen To Do BBY RegistrationWhat to Do For Farmer RegistrationBhavantar Bharpayee Yojana – Crops, MSP and ProductionObjectives of Bhavantar Bharpayee Yojana
Haryana govt. has included 6 more crops in Bhavantar Bharpayee Yojana for farmers (now total 10 crops). In this scheme, if any horticulture grower gets lower price of his produced good in any Mandi, then the state govt. will provide compensation or the price deficit. This BBY Scheme will help farmers in diversification of their crops as well as to reduce the risk by ensuring a fixed minimum support price. To avail the benefits, all the farmers must make online registration at fasalhry.in
All the farmers can see the prescribed dates as the registration, verification, appeal lines are open only within the specified duration. So, all farmers must make online registration during these time limits. To get the encouragement amount, farmers have to sell their crops at J-Form and then upload it on BBY portal.
Latest Update – हरियाणा सरकार ने भावांतर भरपाई योजना में अब गाजर, मटर, किन्नू, अमरूद, शिमला मिर्च और बैंगन को भी शामिल कर लिया है| गाजर का मूल्य 700 रुपये प्रति क्विंटल, किन्नू का मूल्य 1100 रुपये प्रति क्विंटल और मटर का मूल्य 1,100 रुपये प्रति क्विंटल निर्धारित किया गया है। इस योजना का लाभ उठाने के लिए किसानों को मेरी फसल मेरा ब्यौरा पोर्टल पर अपना पंजीकरण करवाना होगा



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Afterwards, the state govt. will transfer the compensation amount directly into the aadhaar linked bank account of the farmers within 15 days.
Bhavantar Bharpayee Yojana Online Registration Form
All the farmers needs to make online registration for Bhavantar Bharpai Yojana to avail the benefits of this scheme:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Firstly visit the official website https://ekharid.in/Home/
All the candidates can click at the “भावान्तर भरपाई योजना” link present at the right side of the page.
Direct Link – To directly open the Kisan Registration page – Click Here
Next, click at the “किसान पंजीकरण” link to open the “BBY Farmers Registration Form”.
Haryana Bhavantar Bharpai Yojana Registration Form
The dates for farmers registration are given in below in the next section. All the registration lines will get opened during this time period.
After wards, candidates can read all the guidelines and fill the registration form to avail the benefits of BBY Yojana.

After the bhavantar bharpayee yojana farmers registration process is over, the candidates can then make direct login at the official BBY Portal – https://ekharid.in/Account/BBYLogin#no-back-button. Farmers can also make registration at Meri Fasal Mera Byora portal at fasalhry.in 
When To Do BBY Registration
All the farmers can make registration for Bhavantar Bharpayee Yojana in the prescribed time period:-
Haryana Bhavantar Bharpai Yojana Online Registration Dates
What to Do For Farmer Registration
All the farmers needs to follow these steps to become eligible for this scheme:-

During the seeding duration, all the farmers needs to make registration at the BBY e-portal of horticulture department and on the website of Haryana State Marketing Board (HSAMB).
Area Certification by the officers of the forest department.
In case a farmers is unsatisfied with the certified area, then there is a provision to file an appeal.
Free Registration for Producers / Manufactures.
All these registration will remain applicable within the above mentioned time limits.
Common Service Centers / E-Disha Centers / Marketing Board / Horticulture department / agricultural department and internet kiosks will provide the registration facility.
Registration, Verification, Issue of Appeal, Sale period are valid within the above mentioned dates.

Bhavantar Bharpayee Yojana – Crops, MSP and Production
In the first phase of Bhavantar Bharpayee Yojana, the state govt. has included 4 crops, set their minimum support price along with their scheduled production. These 4 crops are – Tomato (टमाटर), Potato (आलू), Onion (प्याज) and Cauliflower (फूलगोभी). Now 6 more crops गाजर, मटर, किन्नू, अमरूद, शिमला मिर्च और बैंगन are added in the Bhavantar Bharpai Yojana. The MSP and scheduled production is given in the table below:-
Bhavantar Bharpayee Yojana Crops List


Name of Crop
Support Price (in Rs. per quintal)
Scheduled Production (Quintal / Acre)


Potato (आलू)
500
120


Onion (प्याज)
650
100


Tomato (टमाटर)
500
140


Cauliflower (फूलगोभी)
750
100


Kinnu (किन्नू)
1100
104


Carrot (गाजर)
700
100


Peas (मटर)
1100
50


Guava (अमरूद)




Capsicum (शिमला मिर्च)




Brinjal (बैंगन)




Objectives of Bhavantar Bharpayee Yojana
The important features and highlights of this new bhavantar bharpai yojana are as follows:-
— To ensure that vegetable cultivators are free from any risks.
— To ensure fixed income of Rs. 48000/- to Rs. 56000/- per acre for the above mentioned crops.
— Fix a minimum support price for tomato, potato, onion and cauliflower under Bhavantar Bharpai Yojana Haryana.
— Providing financial support to the farmers who have sell their crops / vegetables in the prescribed period on a price below their actual cultivation / production price. Govt. will provide compensation to all the farmers who are registered on the fasalhry.in or BBY portal.
— All the land owners, lease holders and tenant can take the benefits of this scheme.

वर्ष 2022 तक किसानों की आय दोगुनी करने का लक्ष्य रखा गया है। मुख्यमंत्री श्री @mlkhattar के नेतृत्व में हरियाणा सरकार निरंतर किसानों के हित में फैसले ले रही है।
प्रदेश के किसान इस योजना का लाभ अवश्य उठाएं। pic.twitter.com/L31PmUGqoP
— CMO Haryana (@cmohry) December 23, 2019
 
In case of any further query, all the candidates can call on the Toll Free Helpline Number – 18001802060 or can send an e-mail to [email protected]





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
