
Haryana govt. is going to launch ‘Super 100’ Scheme for meritorious students. Under this scheme, all the govt. school students securing more than 85% marks in Class 10th will get free coaching for JEE, NEET along with boarding facility. This training course for medical and engineering competitive entrance exams would be of 2 years and is absolutely free of cost. Govt. will conduct entrance test in June for candidates to get admission in this scheme. 
The state govt. of Haryana will launch this scheme in the current financial year 2018. Govt. will select 225 students to provide free expert coaching for entrance examinations.
Moreover, the state govt. will also bear the boarding, lodging and travel expenditure during these 2 years.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Super 100 Free Coaching Scheme
The important features and highlights of this Super 100 Scheme are as follows:-

All the 10th Pass students of government schools with more than 85% marks are eligible to participate in the entrance test going to be held in the second week of June 2018.
The selected candidates will get free coaching for 2 years for preparation of JEE / NEET Entrance Exam.
This 2 years Special Coaching will comprise of 225 students including boys and girls to avail training for medical and engineering competitive exams. Equal number of boys and girls will be enrolled under this scheme.
Out of these selected students, 125 students will be admitted to govt. school in Rewari and 100 will be admitted in Karnal. These students will complete their schooling (Class 11th and 12th) and also receive expert coaching from trained faculty.
Govt. will also bear the entire expenditure on boarding, lodging and travel arrangements (once in every 3 years). This would enable the students to get best coaching facility without worrying about expenses.
Haryana govt. will also apprise parents and students about the new Super 100 Scheme through district level orientation programmes.
Moreover, the state govt. has allocated a budget of Rs. 1 crore for this scheme.

Haryana govt. has signed an MoU with the Vikalp Foundation, Rewari to provide free coaching to meritorious govt. school students. In addition to this, govt. will also sign another MoU to provide coaching and boarding facilities in Karnal.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

This scheme is an after effect of the 10th board results declared by BSEH where around 50% of the students fails. The overall pass percentage in 10th exams is 51.15 percent. Girls have the pass percentage of 55.34 while boys have the pass percentage of 47.61.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
