


Table of Contents

Online Stamp Papers at egrashry.nic.in – HighlightsHow to Generate Online Stamp Papers at egrashry.nic.inPayment Methods on egrashry.nic.in
Haryana Government has decided to make e-stamping through egrashry.nic.in mandatory from 1st March 2017 to bring in more transparency and efficiency to the whole stamping process. The e-Stamping was made mandatory in four districts including Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, and Panchkula with effect from 01 May 2016 in the first phase. But, now the government has decided to make the e-stamping mandatory in all the districts of the state from 1st March 2017.
The existing stamp paper vendors including treasury offices / sub treasury offices and authorized branches of state bank of India will stop selling the stamp papers (Non-Judicial) from 1st March. Stamp paper vendors would be able to generate stamp papers (Non-Judicial) up to Rs. 10,000 per person through the e-stamping module on egrashry.nic.in only.
Online Stamp Papers at egrashry.nic.in – Highlights
The e-Stamping portal egrashry.nic.in can be accessed by anyone who wish to generate online stamp papers. The e-Stamping process through the egrashry.nic.in would be very simple and easy. The process would be divided in two parts. In the first part, the first part would include making the payment for the stamp papers through the relevant receipt head.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The second part obviously be there to generate online stamp paper after the confirmation of payment.
How to Generate Online Stamp Papers at egrashry.nic.in
Below is step by step procedure to generate online stamp papers through egrashry.nic.in


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Visit the E-GRAS portal by clicking the link egrashry.nic.in, looks like below:
egrashry.nic.in Website
In the left side, enter your user ID and password to login or create a new account by clicking Sign Up button. The sign Up process is simple, you just need to fill the basic personal information about yourself including a valid mobile number on which you will receive an OTP for sign up verification.
Use your registered used id and password for logging in and click “create profile” in the right section of the account dashboard.
Create a profile by selecting the appropriate options as per your requirements.
Once the profile is created, come back to “Home” page and you will see the list of Profile(s) you have created. Click on “Make Payment” and fill the necessary details on next page, select the payment method and “Submit”. OR you can directly select the category and purpose of payment from this page to make the payment.
After making the successful payment, a GRN number will be assigned to your account and you can generate stamp paper.
To generate online stamp paper, click on “Prepare Stamp Paper” link in the header section and “Select the Document” type and GRN from the drop down list.
Fill the necessary details and submit, your stamp paper shall be ready.

Payment Methods on egrashry.nic.in
1. Online Payment through Payment Aggregator on E-GRAS portal
Payment aggregator service is already running on E-GRAS portal through Punjab National Bank, IDBI Bank and State Bank of India. These banks will not charge any fee for the purpose of collection of Government receipts through netbanking on E-GRAS portal.
However in case of making payments through credit or debit cards following would be the extra charges, exclusive of all taxes, charges & levies which will be automatically deducted along the payment to be made.



Card Type
Charges


Debit Card
0.70% for up to Rs. 2000/-, 0.73% for above Rs. 2000/-


Credit Card
0.90%



Online stamp papers can be generated through e-Stamping immediately after the successful payment.
2. Manual Payment through E-GRAS Challan
The candidates can also make payments through demand draft or cash to any of the bank branches of SBI, IDBI, SBOP, PNB, CBI and concerned treasury bank branch. To make the offline manual payment, the person needs to generate the requisite challan from egrashry.nic.in and then he/she can generate the online stamp paper immediately after the successful manual payment.
Immediately after successful payments through any of the methods, the depositors can generate stamp papers online through egrashry.nic.in and then seek registration from the Revenue Authority by using HARIS portal. The revenue authority after verifying the payment through E-GRAS system shall register the document and the system will automatically deface the e-Stamp and corresponding Government Receipt Number (GRN) online to avoid duplicity.
Refund of Unused Stamp Papers
The citizens can also apply for the refund of their unused stamp papers on the same E-GRAS portal at egrashry.nic.in by filling the required information through the prescribed form available on the website. Upon verification, the amount will be transferred to the bank account of the payee’s through NEFT/RTGS modes.
The detailed instructions about the notification are available on the official website of Finance Department of Haryana at http://finhry.gov.in
egrashry.nic.in Haryana e-stamping – Create Online Stamp Papers





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
