
Haryana govt. has increased the Monthly Pension of workers who are registered with Construction Workers Welfare Board (CWWB) to Rs. 2,500 p.m. All the registered labourers with more than 60 years of age will now get Rs. 2500 p.m from Rs. 1,000 p.m. CM Manohar Lal Khattar has made this announcement at the state-level Rajkiya Shramik Divas Samaroh organized by the Labour department on 17 September 2018. 
Haryana Unorganised Workers Social Security Board will also be constituted as said by CM on the occasion of Vishvakarma Jayanti in Karnal. This board would function for the welfare of unorganized sector workers.
CM ML Khattar has also accepted on-the-spot 33 demands put forth by the Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Nayab Singh Saini. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Construction Workers Welfare Board – Rs. 2500 p.m Pension
Construction workers in unorganized sector will now receive pension amount of Rs. 2500 per month instead of previous Rs. 1000 per month. All the registered workers with Construction Workers Welfare Board who are 60 years or more in age can now avail this raised amount as monthly pension. Haryana govt. is already running several schemes for the welfare of workers and their families. 
Haryana is one of those states who are providing the maximum amount as salary to unskilled labourers. These workers are getting Rs. 8,542 per month or Rs. 329 per day. Organized and Unorganized are 2 sectors engaging workers. In Haryana, around 25% workers are currently working in organized sectors while 75% workers are working in unorganized sector. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Increased Monthly Pension Scheme is to benefit major section i.e unorganized sector workers. Till date, there are around 7.76 lakh workers who are registered with the Building and other Construction Workers Welfare Board out of which 5.08 lakh members are active.

‘हरियाणा असंगठित कर्मकार सामाजिक सुरक्षा बोर्ड’ का गठन किया जाएगा, जो असंगठित क्षेत्र में कार्यरत श्रमिकों के कल्याण हेतु कार्य करेगा। सन्निर्माण कर्मकार कल्याण बोर्ड में पंजीकृत 60 वर्ष की आयु से अधिक श्रमिकों को मिलने वाली ₹1,000 की मासिक Pension को बढ़ाकर ₹2,500 किया जाएगा।
— Manohar Lal (@mlkhattar) September 17, 2018

In regard to the new health insurance scheme of the state government, CM said that from September 23, the central govt. will provide Rs. 5 lakh per annum to poor families for treatment purposes. People can now check their name in PM Jan Arogya Yojana Final Beneficiaries List to avail this insurance cover. 
As per SECC-2011 Data, there are around 14 lakh poor families in Haryana, out of which around 8.5 lakh families would benefit from this scheme. However, those families who are not recorded in SECC Data, would be given Rs. 5 lakh for healthcare services from Construction Workers Welfare Board. 
For more details on hike in pension amount of unorganized sector construction workers, see complete report:-
http://prharyana.gov.in/en/the-haryana-chief-minister-mr-manohar-lal-today-hiked-monthly-pension-of-workers-aged-60-years-or-0





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
