


Table of Contents

Haryana Cyber Security Portal & Toll Free NumberCyberDost Twitter handle launchedNational Challenge – Creative Solutions using Technology for School Students
Haryana govt. has become the first state which has launched Cyber Security Portal at haryanaismo.gov.in. In addition, toll free number 1800-180-1234 for cyber security and cyber alert reporting has been introduced. This portal will provide raise awareness on online issues and will also provide information on points to be kept in mind while using Internet. 
Information Security Management Office (ISMO) has launched this Cyber Security Portal to address issues of Internet attack, mobile device security and cyber threats. Services for cyber security were launched by Finance Minister of Haryana after inaugurating “National Summit on Digital Innovation & Cyber Security” at Gurugram on 15 January 2019.
The state govt. has also decided to introduce information related to cyber security in school curriculum.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Cyber Security Portal & Toll Free Number
This is for the first time that a state in India has launched Cyber Security Portal which is available at haryanaismo.gov.in. Moreover, the state govt. of Haryana has launched toll free number 1800-180-1234 to report cyber security issues. People can secure their system through the following methods available at the Cyber Security Portal:-

Keeping Children Safe Online – Download PDF
Beware of Fake Antivirus – Download PDF
Preventing and Responding to Identity Theft – Download PDF
Minimize the access for others – Download PDF

Security is becoming more and more established in the govt. structure and it is no longer acceptable for security to be a secondary function of an IT department. From now onward, anyone in the Haryana state can log on to cyber security portal at haryanaismo.gov.in and know ways to secure oneself against cyber threats. This portal comprises of all the information regarding how to keep children safe online. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

As the children uses internet, they needs to get educated on how to keep themselves safe from cyber threats. In this portal, there is a set of questions for students of different classes which they needs to answer. This would be introduced in schools of Haryana and added that it is the first time in the country that any state has launched such a Cyber Security Portal.

Cyber security के लिए Toll-free number तथा Portal शुरू करने वाला देश का पहला राज्य बना हरियाणा pic.twitter.com/WdU29lB3Eg
— CMO Haryana (@cmohry) January 16, 2019

CyberDost Twitter handle launched
In order to spread awareness about cyber-crimes and normal precautions which needs to be taken, the Ministry of Home Affairs has lunched @CyberDost twitter handle. General public and govt. employees will get hugely benefited in case they follow this twitter handle. This Cyber Dost Twitter handle is going to enhance their basic knowledge about cyber crimes.
National Challenge – Creative Solutions using Technology for School Students
Candidates can click at ideateforindia.negd.in to participate in the Ideate for India – creative solutions using technology.
The entire world in a near future is expected to face a cyber war and we all are under attack. So, govt. has organized national level summit to sensitize the masses about the cyber use. India is the fifth largest country in the entire world which faces data breach attacks. Haryana has launched its cyber security policy in 2017 and now the state govt. is implementing it. Various delegates from states who did commendable job in the field of cyber security were also honoured in the summit. 
This summit will deal with several issues and make us aware about cyber world. Technology must be used for the fast delivery of services and to facilitate people rather than a threat. For more details, candidates can send an e-mail at support[at]haryanaismo[dot]gov[dot]in. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
