
हरियाणा श्रमिक विभाग की मुफ्त भ्रमण सुविधा योजना 2019 ऑनलाइन पंजीकरण / आवेदन पत्र आधिकारिक वेबसाइट hrylabour.gov.in पर उपलब्ध हैं, पंजीकृत कामगार व परिवार के 4 सदस्यों को चार वर्ष में एक बार प्रसिद्व धार्मिक/ऐतिहासिक स्थलों का भ्रमण करने हेतु खर्च हुई राशि का भुगतान रेलवे (द्वितीय श्रेणी) या हरियाणा रोडवेज की बस (साधारण) द्वारा निर्धारित किराये के आधार पर किया जाएगा, जानिये पात्रता और आवेदन की शर्तें

Table of Contents

Haryana Labour Free Travel Facility Scheme 2019Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Free Travel Facility Scheme Form OnlineHaryana Labour Welfare Board Free Travel Facility Scheme EligibilityHaryana Labour Department Free Travel Facility Scheme Conditions
Labour department of Haryana invites online application form for Free Travel Facility Scheme (मुफ्त भ्रमण सुविधा) at hrylabour.gov.in. Under this Haryana Labour Welfare Board Muft Bhraman Suvidha Yojana, labor dept. provides free travel to labourer and their 4 family members to religional / historical places. People can now apply online, check conditions and eligibility criteria to avail assistance under Free Travel Facility Scheme.
All the registered BOCW workers can avail this assistance for 1 time in 4 years duration. Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Free Travel Facility Scheme, laborers can get assistance to visit pilgrimage and historical places with their families.
All the BOCW laborers can now apply online for Haryana Labour Welfare Board Muft Bhraman Suvidha Scheme and fill online registration / application form.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Labour Free Travel Facility Scheme 2019
Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Free Travel Facility Scheme 2019 aims to provide reimbursement of amount of visiting pilgrimage and historical places to registered labourers along with their 4 family members. This Muft Bhraman Suvidha Yojana by Haryana Labour Department will enable labourers to get assistance at rates of fares fixed by Indian Railways and Haryana Roadways.
Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Free Travel Facility Scheme Form Online
All the candidates can firstly visit the official website at hrylabour.gov.in. At the homepage, go to the “E-Services” section and make registration using Aadhaar card. Then make a login at the homepage of the official Labour dept. website and fill the Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Free Travel Facility Scheme online registration form.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

To read the complete Muft Bhraman Suvidha Yojana details, click at the link – Haryana Labour Free Travel Facility Scheme.
Haryana Labour Welfare Board Free Travel Facility Scheme Eligibility
Under the Free Travel Facility Scheme of Haryana Labour Welfare Board, labour dept. reimburses amount spent on visiting religional / historical places of registered labourers and 4 family members. The rates of reimbursement depends on the amount to visit such places as per the Indian Railways (Second Tier) and Haryana Roadways (General) rates. The eligibility criteria to avail assistance under Haryana Labour Free Travel Facility Scheme are as follows:-


Eligibility / पात्रता


Membership Years / सदस्यता वर्ष
2


Apply Frequency / आवेदन की सीमा
1


Scheme For / इस योजना के लिए
All


Continue After Death / मृत्यु के बाद जारी
No


Haryana Labour Department Free Travel Facility Scheme Conditions
People can follow the below mentioned conditions to avail financial aid under Labour Welfare Board Muft Bhraman Suvidha Scheme in Haryana:-

All the registered labourers must have minimum 2 years of membership / subscription.
The actual fare ticket must be attached.
In the identity certificate of the registered labourer, registration fees and subscription amount is to be mentioned.

This facility will remain applicable for 1 time in 4 years duration. Free Travel Facility Scheme 2019 is available for all registered workers of the Haryana state. Moreover, the duration of visit to the religion (pilgrimage) and historical places must not exceed 10 days.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: hrylabour.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
