
Haryana govt. is soon going to rollout Kisan Pension Scheme 2019 for farmers in the state. For this purpose, the state govt. has already constituted a committee to formulate the pension scheme for farmers. This committee will submit its report to the CM Manohar Lal Khattar. The committee members also hold discussions over the eligible age of farmers for the scheme. 
The retirement age for government sector employees is 58 years and so the govt. is considering to have a similar criteria of 58 years age limit or even lesser for Pension Scheme for Farmers in Haryana. 
Draft preparing committee for Kisan Pension Scheme is headed by Mr. Subhash Barala along with MLAs named Abhay Singh Yadav, Mahipal Dhanda, Ghanshyam Das Arora, Pawan Saini and Director of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department, Ajit Balaji Joshi.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Kisan Pension 2019 for Farmers
After the second meeting of the committee constituted by the Haryana govt. to formulate the pension scheme for farmers in Haryana, the state govt. has decided to rollout Kisan Pension Scheme 2019 for Farmers. The issues related to age limit, amount of pension, number of farmers to be covered under the Kisan Pension Yojana were discussed at the meeting. Earlier, the 1st meeting of the committee was held last month on 27 December 2018. 
In the 2nd meeting, it is decided that the committee is going to submit its report to the CM very shortly. It was informed that the deputy commissioners of all the districts have been directed to send the data of the farmers within 10 days. After report submission on Kisan Pension Scheme 2019, committee can take further action on the basis of collected data. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

This decision to implement pension scheme for farmers comes after the newly elected governments in Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh have announced Farm Loan Waiver Scheme. After such big step towards welfare of farmers, the state govt. is under big pressure to make big announcement for farmers of Haryana. 

आज चंडीगढ़ स्थित हरियाणा निवास में किसानों को पेंशन देने के मुद्दे पर हरियाणा सरकार द्वारा गठित कमेटी की बैठक की अध्यक्षता की। बैठक में विधायक श्री घमश्याम दास अरोड़ा, श्री अभय सिंह यादव, श्री पवन सैनी, श्री महिपाल ढांडा एवं कृषि विभाग के महानिदेशक श्री अजीत बालाजी जोशी शामिल रहे pic.twitter.com/cF8M8IC19i
— Subhash Barala (@subhashbrala) January 9, 2019

Moreover, the opposition parties like Congress and INLD have promised farm loan waiver scheme for farmers if they are voted to power in the assembly polls which are going to be held in October 2019.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
