
हरियाणा श्रमिक विभाग की निर्माण कामगार पेंशन योजना 2019 ऑनलाइन पंजीकरण / आवेदन पत्र आधिकारिक वेबसाइट hrylabour.gov.in पर उपलब्ध हैं, पंजीकृत निर्माण कामगार श्रमिकों को 1 हज़ार रुपये प्रति माह की वित्तीय सहायता, जानिये पात्रता और आवेदन की शर्तें

Table of Contents

Haryana Labour Construction Workers Pension Scheme 2019Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Construction Workers Pension Scheme Form OnlineHaryana Labour Welfare Board Construction Workers Pension Scheme EligibilityHaryana Labour Department Construction Workers Pension Scheme Conditions
The labour department of Haryana has launched Construction Workers Pension Scheme for registered labourers. Under this construction labourers pension scheme, all the building and construction workers will get Rs. 1,000 per month as pension. Laborers can now apply online and fill Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Construction Workers Scheme form at hrylabour.gov.in
Haryana Labour Welfare Board Construction Workers Pension Scheme will provide assistance to BOCW laborers. Construction Laborers Pension Scheme is applicable for all the registered labourers and is given in addition to the pension given by the Social Welfare and Justice Department. 
All the building and construction workers (BOCW) can now apply online for Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Construction Workers Pension Scheme and fill Haryana Labour Construction Laborers Pension Scheme online registration / application form.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Labour Construction Workers Pension Scheme 2019
Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Construction Workers Pension Scheme 2019 aims to provide financial assistance of Rs. 1,000 per month to the registered labourers. This pension scheme for building and construction workers has the main motto to create the best environment for the registered workers.
Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Construction Workers Pension Scheme Form Online
All the candidates can firstly visit the official website at hrylabour.gov.in. At the homepage, go to the “E-Services” section and make registration using Aadhaar card. Then make a login at the homepage of the official Labour dept. website and fill the Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Construction Labourers Pension Scheme online registration form.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

To read the complete Construction Laborers Pension Scheme details, click at the link – Haryana Labour Construction Workers Pension Scheme
Haryana Labour Welfare Board Construction Workers Pension Scheme Eligibility
Under the construction workers pension scheme of Haryana Labour Welfare Board, labour dept. provides Rs. 1,000 per month as assistance to building and construction workers. The terms and conditions to avail Haryana Labour Construction Workers Pension Yojana are as follows:-


Eligibility / पात्रता


Membership Years / सदस्यता वर्ष
3


Apply Frequency / आवेदन की सीमा
1


Scheme For / इस योजना के लिए
All


Continue After Death / मृत्यु के बाद जारी
No


Labour Welfare Fund Haryana Construction Workers Pension Scheme 2019 is available for all registered workers of the Haryana state.
Haryana Labour Department Construction Workers Pension Scheme Conditions
People can follow the below mentioned conditions to avail financial aid under Labour Welfare Board Construction Workers Pension Scheme in Haryana:-

All the labourers must be registered with at-least 3 year membership / subscription.
The labourer must be a building and construction worker and must have completed at-least 60 years of age.
In the identity certificate of the registered laborers, registration fees and updated subscription amount is to be mentioned.
At the time of registration, copy of document in support of age proof must be attached with the completed application form.

All the construction workers must submit the completed application form and registered documents to the concerned authorities to avail assistance. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: hrylabour.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
