
Haryana Employment Department is inviting online applications at Job Fair Portal for Upcoming Rojgar Mela 2020. Now all the interested jobseekers can apply online by filling Haryana Job Fair Portal online registration form at hrex.gov.in. All the eligible candidates (as per job requirements) can apply for vacancies as shown on the portal on timely basis. The complete list of vacancies in various Mega job fairs in Haryana will remain available at official portal. Also check complete list of Rojgar Mela 2020 (Mega Job Fairs month wise) in state.
The major objective of making Haryana Job Fair Portal Registration is to provide employment to all unemployed educated youths in the state. All the applicants can check the upcoming Rojgar Mela or Mega Job Fair 2020 at official Haryana Employment Department Job Fair Portal. This portal will facilitate jobseekers to get better and suitable jobs as per their qualifications.
Various National and Multi-national companies (MNC’s) organize Mega job fairs in Haryana every year where lakhs of students gets placement. So, participate and be one of the selected candidates of next Rojgar Mela.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Job Fair Portal Online Registration Form 2020 for Jobseekers
Haryana Job Fair Portal is an initiative of Employment Department, Govt. of Haryana to provide employment opportunities to jobless youth in private sector. Here is the complete process to register yourself for upcoming mega job fair (Rojgar Mela 2020) in Haryana:-

Firstly visit the official job portal at hrex.gov.in
At the homepage, scroll over the “Accounts” section and click at the “Register” link.
Direct Link – https://hrex.gov.in/#/register
Here enter your mobile number and click at “Send OTP” button as shown below:-
Haryana Rojgar Mela Online Registration Form

Enter the OTP received on registered mobile number and click at the “Verify” button to validate OTP.
After successful verification, the Haryana Job Fair Portal Jobseekers Registration Form will appear as shown below:-
Haryana Job Fair Portal Jobseekers Registration Form

Here candidates needs to fill their basic details, mobile number, e-mail ID and click at ‘Sign Up’ button to complete the registration process. Verify the registration link sent at your e-mail ID.
Afterwards, the Haryana Job Fair Portal Apply Online Form will appear as follows:-
Haryana Job Fair Portal Apply Online Form

Here candidates can enter their personal details, communication, qualification, experience, physical attributes, preferences etc to complete the Job Fair Online Application process.

All the registered candidates can then appear for an interview / selection process in the upcoming job fairs in Delhi. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Upcoming Rojgar Mela List 2020 at Haryana Job Fair Portal
All the applicants can even check the complete list of vacancies or upcoming rojgar mela 2020 at Haryana Job Fair Portal. All the upcoming jobs organized by national or multi national companies will appear on this page along with date. So, applicants must regularly visit this page to secure a good job. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: hrex.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
