
Haryana govt. is going to launch a new scheme for students to encourage tree plantation. Under this scheme, govt. will provide an incentives to every Class 6th to 12th students for planting trees. Now school children will get Rs. 50 on every live tree they plant in every 6 months for a period of 3 years. All the students from both government as well as private schools are eligible for this scheme.
CM Manohar Lal Khattar has taken this decision while reviewing the progress of environment-centric schemes of different govt. departments. The state govt. will also provide books on environment conservation to the students.
School Education Dept. will launch this drive across the state from 10 July 2018. Forest dept. will ensure that adequate saplings are available for such a drive to become successful. Around 22 lakh students studying in Class 6th to 12th will be motivated to plant at least 1 tree in their house or at public places.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Govt. Scheme – Get Rs. 50 on Every Tree You Plant
All the students from Class 6th to 12th in both govt. and private schools will get Rs. 50 for every tree they plant every 6 months for a duration of 3 years. To motivate the students and to fill a sense of connection in them, child will be encouraged to name their trees after famous personalities or their ancestors.
Every week, education department will submit a weekly report to CM on the progress made under the scheme. In the meeting, the state govt. also decides to utilize water bottles made of glass as an alternative to plastic bottles. Previously, Haryana govt. has banned water bottles across all state govt. offices. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Under Tooti Lagao Pani Bachao Scheme, govt. will also launch a massive drive for installation of taps in all villages in order to reduce waste due to open pipes. Govt. will also encourage the village panchayats to reduce the wastage of water. 
Urban Local Bodies dept. will prepare a list of plots over 500 sq. yards, low lying plots of Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) and in areas under 10 municipal corporations. Govt. will utilize this list to make plan for compulsory rain water harvesting. Govt. also decides to replace the existing halogen, sodium vapour bulbs and tubelights in all govt. offices with energy efficient LED lights before 15 August 2018.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
