
हरियाणा श्रमिक विभाग की चिकित्सा सहायता योजना 2019 ऑनलाइन पंजीकरण / आवेदन पत्र आधिकारिक वेबसाइट hrylabour.gov.in पर उपलब्ध हैं, पंजीकृत कामगार की दुर्घटना होने या बीमारी से पीड़ित होने पर सरकारी हस्पताल एवं सरकार द्वारा अनुमोदित निजि हस्पताल में उपचार हेतु चार दिनों से 30 दिनों तक दाखिल रहने पर श्रमिक को राज्य में प्रचलित न्युनतम मजदूरी के हिसाब से मजदूरी क्षतिपूर्त/वित्तीय सहायता दी जाती है, जानिये पात्रता और आवेदन की शर्तें

Table of Contents

Haryana Labour Chikitsa Sahayata Yojana 2019Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Assistance for Medical Treatment Scheme Form OnlineHaryana Labour Welfare Board Assistance for Medical Treatment Scheme EligibilityHaryana Labour Department Chikitsa Sahayata Yojana Conditions
Labour department of Haryana invites Assistance for Medical Treatment Scheme online application form at hrylabour.gov.in. Under this Haryana Labour Chikitsa Sahayata Yojana for labourers, labor dept. provides minimum wages (as fixed by Haryana govt.) in case of admitting of laborer in case of any accident or disease in any govt. / govt. aided hospital. People can now apply online, check conditions and eligibility criteria to avail Medical Aid Scheme for Labourers in Haryana (चिकित्सा सहायता योजना).
All the registered BOCW workers can avail this medical aid facility on being admitted to a hospital for 4 to 30 days. Haryana Labour Welfare Board Medical Treatment Assistance Scheme for labourers has the main objective to assist workers to lead a life of dignity and honour and not to worry about medical expenses.
The BOCW laborers can now apply online for Haryana Labour department Chikitsa Sahayata Yojana and fill online registration / application form.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Labour Chikitsa Sahayata Yojana 2019
Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Assistance for Medical Treatment Scheme 2019 aims to provide assistance to labourers in case they suffers from any accident or any other major ailment. This Chikitsa Sahayata Yojana by Haryana Labour Department will enable labourers to get their minimum wages in case they got admitted in the govt. / govt. aided hospitals.
Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Assistance for Medical Treatment Scheme Form Online
All the candidates can firstly visit the official website at hrylabour.gov.in. At the homepage, go to the “E-Services” section and make registration using Aadhaar card. Then make a login at the homepage of the official Labour dept. website and fill the Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Assistance for Medical Treatment Scheme for labourers online registration form.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

To read the complete Chikitsa Sahayata Yojana details, click at the link – Haryana Labour Chikitsa Sahayata Yojana.
Haryana Labour Welfare Board Assistance for Medical Treatment Scheme Eligibility
Under the चिकित्सा सहायता योजना of Haryana Labour Welfare Board, labour dept. provide minimum wages to the laborers admitted in hospitals suffering from accident / major disease. These wages would be given when the laborer got admitted in govt. / govt. aided hospitals for 4 to 30 days duration. The rates of wages would be same as those fixed as minimum wages by the Haryana government under Haryana Labour Assistance for Medical Treatment Scheme. To avail the assistance, candidates must fulfill the eligibility criteria as shown below:-


Eligibility / पात्रता


Membership Years / सदस्यता वर्ष
1


Apply Frequency / आवेदन की सीमा
1


Scheme For / इस योजना के लिए
All


Continue After Death / मृत्यु के बाद जारी
No


Haryana Labour Department Chikitsa Sahayata Yojana Conditions
People can follow the below mentioned conditions to avail financial aid under Labour Welfare Board Chikitsa Sahayata Yojana in Haryana:-

All the registered labourers must have minimum 1 years of membership / subscription.
In the identity certificate of the registered labourers, date of application and subscription amount needs to be mentioned.
All the laborers must be admitted for treatment in govt. / govt. aided hospitals for minimum 4 days to maximum 30 days. For this, they must produce a hospital certificate or proof.
This facility is not applicable for medical treatment of more than 1 month in a single year.






(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: hrylabour.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
