


Table of Contents

How to Apply for PMAY Demand Survey in HaryanaEligibility for PMAY Demand Survey in HaryanaDocuments Required
Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana demand survey application forms are now being invited in Haryana for selection of eligible beneficiaries. The state government is inviting application forms for PMAY demand survey through local bodies from June 1. The last date of the submission of application forms for PMAY demand survey is 15 July, 2017.
The selected beneficiaries would be entitled to get Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana benefits under the following four components:
1. Credit Linked Subsidy Scheme
2. Affordable Housing Scheme
3. Self construction or expansion of house
4. Slum re-development scheme
How to Apply for PMAY Demand Survey in Haryana
The interested candidates can visit the office of local town development department where all the details about the application forms and documents submission can be found. The department would conduct ward wise demand survey for PMAY beneficiary selection. If the applicant is unable to submit their documents/demand in the ward, he/she can visit the local town development department between 1 June and 15 July.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Online applicants would have to present all the required documents at the department office before the set date failing which the application will automatically be cancelled.
Application forms for PMAY demand survey would be provided to the applicants by the department officials in the ward itself or the department office.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

There is no fee for submitting the demand survey application form.
Eligibility for PMAY Demand Survey in Haryana
Following candidates are eligible to submit their PMAY demand survey application:

The candidate should belong to any of the following income categories – EWS, LIG, MIG-1, MIG-2.
The applicant should have Aadhar Number and a bank account.
The applicant should not have any pucca house in any part of the country in his/her name or in the name of any family member.
He/She should not be a beneficiary of any government housing scheme in the past.
The applicant should be the resident or Haryana and respective town as on 17 June 2015 or an employee of government department, industrial unit or company registered with labor welfare board of Haryana.
Residents of unauthorized colonies who does not have pucca house are not eligible for the scheme.

Documents Required
Following documents are required for submission of PMAY demand survey application form in Haryana
– Aadhar card and saving bank account for identity verification
– Voter ID, Telephone Bill, Electricity Bill, Ration Card, Passport, Bank Passbook, Pension Book, Aadhar Card or any government certified document for residence verification.
– Self declaration document of household income and eligibility on a plain paper along with latest passport size photograph.
– The layout of plot, home construction or expansion prepared and verified by draftsman/architect.
– Registration documents of plot or property sale-purchase documents, Jamabandi certificate, notarized receipt, or allotment letter issued by any government body or panchayat.
Advertisement of PMAY Demand Survey Haryana
PMAY Demand Survey Haryana – Credits: epaper.amarujala.com





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
