
हरियाणा श्रमिक विभाग की परिवारिक पेंशन योजना 2019 ऑनलाइन पंजीकरण / आवेदन पत्र आधिकारिक वेबसाइट hrylabour.gov.in पर उपलब्ध हैं, पंजीकृत पैंशनर श्रमिक की मृत्यु हो जाने पर उसके पैंशन का आधा भाग उसकी पत्नी या पति को दिया जाएगा, जानिये पात्रता और आवेदन की शर्तें

Table of Contents

Haryana Labour Family Pension Scheme 2019Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Family Pension Scheme Form OnlineHaryana Labour Welfare Board Family Pension Scheme EligibilityHaryana Labour Department Family Pension Scheme Conditions
The labour department of Haryana has launched Family Pension Scheme for registered labourers. Under this Haryana Labour Welfare Board Family Pension Scheme, the dependent family members will get half of the pension amount of registered pensioner worker on his / her death. Laborers can now apply online and fill Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Family Pension Scheme form at hrylabour.gov.in
Haryana Labour Welfare Board Family Pension Scheme will provide assistance to family members BOCW laborers. Family Pension Scheme is applicable for all the registered labourers.
All the building and construction workers (BOCW) can now apply online for Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Family Pension Scheme and fill Haryana Labour Family Pension Scheme online registration / application form.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Labour Family Pension Scheme 2019
Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Family Pension Scheme 2019 aims to provide financial assistance to the families of registered labourers. This family pension scheme for dependents of the labour pensioners has the main motto to create the best environment for the registered workers.
Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Family Pension Scheme Form Online
All the candidates can firstly visit the official website at hrylabour.gov.in. At the homepage, go to the “E-Services” section and make registration using Aadhaar card. Then make a login at the homepage of the official Labour dept. website and fill the Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Family Pension Scheme online registration form.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

To read the complete Family Pension Scheme details, click at the link – Haryana Labour Family Pension Scheme
Haryana Labour Welfare Board Family Pension Scheme Eligibility
Under the Family pension scheme of Haryana Labour Welfare Board, labour dept. provides half of the amount p.m to dependent member which was given to pensioner labour on his / her death. The terms and conditions to avail Haryana Labour Family Pension Scheme (Paarivarik Pension Yojana) are as follows:-


Eligibility / पात्रता


Membership Years / सदस्यता वर्ष
3


Apply Frequency / आवेदन की सीमा
1


Scheme For / इस योजना के लिए
All


Continue After Death / मृत्यु के बाद जारी
No


Labour Welfare Fund Haryana Family Pension Scheme 2019 is available for all registered workers of the Haryana state.
Haryana Labour Department Family Pension Scheme Conditions
People can follow the below mentioned conditions to avail financial aid under Labour Welfare Board Family Pension Scheme in Haryana:-

At the time of death of labour pensioner, their dependent husband / wife will receive half of the pension amount per month as Family Pension Scheme of Haryana Labour department.
Candidates must submit the completed and verified identity certificate along with claim form. This ID certificate must contain the details of the submitted subscription amount and needs to be attached.

There is a provision that on the death of the pensioner worker, the pension which was being given to him would now be given to his dependent family member (half of amount) under Family Pension Scheme.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: hrylabour.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
