
Haryana govt. is going to provide subsidized LPG gas connections to all the Khaki ration card holders in the state. Under this scheme, all the Other Priority Households (OPH) who does not possess LPG gas connections will be given new gas connection on subsidy. This move is to provide clean fuel to the khakee ration cardholders to ensure a safe, secure and pollution free environment while cooking. People can download application form for scheme for subsidized LPG connection to other priority households and submit it at nearest gas agency.
The state govt. will provide an assistance of Rs. 1600 to provide LPG gas connection on subsidy while the Khakhi ration card holders will have to bear the remaining amount of Rs. 633. There are a total number of 65,275 other priority households in the state who does not possess a gas connection. 
All such OPH ration card holders can avail gas connections on subsidy from their nearby located gas agency. Consumers needs to submit e-KYC form along with the photocopies of aadhaar card and bank account.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Scheme of LPG Gas Connections for OPH Ration Card Holders
Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer affairs department will provide these subsidized gas connections to Khakee ration card holders in Haryana. This scheme to provide LPG gas connections on subsidy will remain available till 26 January 2019. OPH ration card holders in Haryana who don’t own LPG gas connections will get financial assistance of Rs. 1600 from the state government. This assistance amount is for 1 gas cylinder and 1 regulator.
Consumers will have to bear the remaining amount of Rs. 633 for additional expenses like secure hose pipe, blue book etc. In addition to this, consumers will also have to bear the expenses for LPG gas stove and cost of gas in cylinder. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Download Subsidized LPG Connection to OPH Card Holders Application Form
Get information on Scheme for Subsidized LPG Connection to Other Priority Households before applying online. People can download the application form for subsidized LPG gas connections to OPH card holders through the link given below:-
http://haryanafood.gov.in/upload/pdfs/OPHSchemes/KYC.pdf 
The application form for scheme for LPG connection to OPH ration card holders is given below:-
Application Form LPG Gas Connection Subsidy Haryana
Applicants needs to submit the photocopy of Khaki ration card, aadhaar card of all adults in the family and bank passbook of women head of the family along with the completed application form at the nearest gas agency.

उन सभी प्राथमिक परिवारों को प्रदेश सरकार की ओर से सब्सिडी वाला गैस कनेक्शन दिया जाएगा, जिनके पास खाकी राशन कार्ड है और पहले से कोई गैस कनेक्शन नही है। pic.twitter.com/k8zsWew6RH
— CMO Haryana (@cmohry) November 22, 2018

Application form for LPG gas connection on subsidy in Haryana is available at all the common service centres (CSCs), gas agencies or at haryanafood.gov.in. It is imperative to note that only those applicants who does not have LPG gas connections in their family would be eligible.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
