
हरियाणा श्रमिक विभाग की मुख्यमंत्री सामाजिक सुरक्षा योजना 2019 ऑनलाइन पंजीकरण / आवेदन पत्र आधिकारिक वेबसाइट hrylabour.gov.in पर उपलब्ध हैं, पंजीकृत श्रमिकों की काम पर मृत्यु हो जाने पर उनके परिवार को 5 लाख रुपये की वित्तीय सहायता, जानिये पात्रता और आवेदन की शर्तें

Table of Contents

Haryana Labour Mukhyamantri Samajik Suraksha Yojana 2019Haryana Labour Mukhyamantri Samajik Suraksha Yojana Form OnlineHaryana Labour Welfare Board CM Social Security Scheme ConditionsHaryana Labour Department Social Security Scheme for Labourers Eligibility
Labour department of Haryana is inviting online application forms for the Mukhyamantri Samajik Suraksha Yojana at hrylabour.gov.in. Under this CM Social Security Scheme, all the registered labourers will get an accidental insurance coverage of Rs. 5,00,000. The main objective is to provide financial assistance to the family of the unorganized sector laborers in an event of death of the labor at the site of working.
Helfare Labour Welfare Board will provide Rs. 5 lakh to the dependents/family members of building and construction workers (BOCW) after the death of registered workers. The main focus is to assist the family of laborers in case of serious accident or death of the worker at the workplace.
All the unorganized sector workers can now apply online for Mukhyamantri Samajik Suraksha Yojana and fill Haryana Labour Social Security Scheme online registration / application form.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Labour Mukhyamantri Samajik Suraksha Yojana 2019
Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Mukhyamantri Samajik Suraksha Yojana 2019 aims to provide financial assistance of Rs. 5 lakh to the registered labourers. This scheme aims to provide Rs. 5 lakh assistance in case of death of the workers at the work site. In addition to this, labour department wants to create the best environment for the registered workers.
Haryana Labour Mukhyamantri Samajik Suraksha Yojana Form Online
All the candidates can firstly visit the official website at hrylabour.gov.in. At the homepage, go to the “E-Services” section and make registration using Aadhaar card. Then make a login at the homepage of the official Labour dept. website and fill the Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Social Security Scheme online registration form.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

To read the complete scheme details, click at the link – Haryana Labour Mukhyamantri Samajik Suraksha Yojana 
Haryana Labour Welfare Board CM Social Security Scheme Conditions
Under the scheme, the state government of Haryana gives Rs. 5,00,000 to the family of worker in an event of death of labour at the worksite. Mukhyamantri Samajik Suraksha Yojana 2019 is available for all registered workers of the Haryana state. The terms and conditions to avail Haryana Labour CM Social Security Scheme are as follows:-

The worker must be registered and must be resident of Haryana.
Copy of First Information Report (FIR) of Accident.
Postmortem Report.
Death Certificate.
Recommendation Report of the concerned officer.
Certificate of Legal Family Member / Dependent of Labourer.

Haryana Labour Department Social Security Scheme for Labourers Eligibility
All the candidates must fulfill the eligibility criteria of Mukhyamantri Samajik Suraksha Yojana to avail scheme benefits as mentioned in the table below:-


Eligibility Criteria


Membership Years / सदस्यता वर्ष
0


Apply Frequency / आवेदन की सीमा
1


Scheme For / इस योजना के लिए
All


Continue After Death / मृत्यु के बाद जारी
No


All the candidates can avail assistance of Rs. 5 lakh in case of death of the labourers at the worksite.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: hrylabour.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
