
State Government of Haryana has announced a slew of welfare scheme on the occasion of Golden Jubilee Celebration of formation of Haryana as a separate state. The welfare schemes were announced by the chief Minister Shri manohar Laal Khattar on 1st November in Gurugram (Formerly Gurgaon). Prime Minister Narendra Modi also joined the event and launched schemes like Deen Dayal Jan Awas Yojana himself.
List of Schemes Announced by Haryana Government
Below is the complete list of welfare schemes which were announced by the state government in 1st November 2016

Monthly Stipend of Rs. 9,000 to unemployed postgraduate youth under the “Saksham” scheme.
7th Pay commission implemented from January 2016.
Deen Dayal Jan Awas Yojana affordable housing scheme launched to create affordable rural housing colonies.
Distribution of free LPG connections to BPL households under “Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana”.
The state will become “Open Defecation Free” by March 2017. 7 district of the state have already been declared open defecation free.
All kinds of social security pensions and honorariums increased to Rs. 1,600 per month which was to be from January, 2017.
Under Public Distribution Scheme, ration distribution through e-devices.
Decision to make “Ex-Servicemen Welfare Department”.
Financial assistance being given to ex-servicemen, widows of ex-servicemen,  physically disabled ex-servicemen, their orphans etc. increased.
Compensation amount of those who lay down their lives during war increased to Rs. 50 Lakh.
Weekly leave for all police personnel for the first time in the state.
Swarna Jayanti Medals for all police officers/Personnel.
Daily allowance of home guards increased to Rs. 572 per day, equivalent to police constables.
Cycle and umbrella for chowkidars in rural areas.
Financial assistance for destitute children increased to Rs. 700 per month.
Financial assistance for non school going differently-abled children increased to Rs. 1000 per month.
Honorarium of Safai Karamcharis in rural areas increased to Rs. 10000 per month.
All these schemes were announced during the celebration of Haryana Swarna Utsav. The schemes will be effective from 1st November 2016.

Advertisement
Below is the advertisement of the scheme published by the state government of Haryana
Haryana Govt. Schemes



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

 




(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
