
Haryana govt. is going to launch Ayushman Bharat Yojana to provide Health Insurance Cover of Rs. 5 lakh to all poor families. For this purpose, CM has launched official portal for Ayushman Bharat Haryana Portal for Health Protection Scheme. People can access the portal at ayushmanbharatharyana.in. All the families whose name appears in the List of Rural and Urban beneficiaries as per SECC 2011 Data can now avail the benefits of Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Swasthya Suraksha Mission (PMRSSM). 
The treatment will be completely cashless and paperless under Ayushman Bharat – National Health Protection Mission (AB-NHPM). National Health Protection Scheme (NHPS) will be launched on the event of Independence Day (15 August 2018) in the state.
Latest Update – Check Ayushman Bharat Hospital List in Haryana to find Ayushman Bharat empanelled hospitals.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY)  – Complete Details
Ayushman Bharat Haryana Portal for Health Protection – Features
People can avail various benefits at the Ayushman Bharat Haryana Portal. The important features and highlights of HRY-NHA Portal are as follows:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Hospital Empanelment – All the hospitals in Haryana can now make Online Empanelment to join the Ayushman Bharat Yojana in Haryana. Also download Hospital Empanelment User Manual
Hiring of Ayushman Mitra – The state govt. will hire various Ayushman Mitras to make people aware about the scheme and to assist them in their claims and registration process. To get selected as Ayushman Mitra, click the link – Haryana Ayushman Mitra Hiring (Work with NHA)
Download Documents – Download Essential documents to avail the treatment benefits under Ayushman Bharat Haryana Swasthya Suraksha Mission through the link – Ayushman Bharat Haryana Documents Download
Apply for NHA Internship Program in Haryana – All the interested candidates who wish to join NHA HRY Internship can apply online through the link – Haryana NHA Internship Program
Download Haryana Ayushman Bharat List of Beneficiaries – To avail cashless treatment, all the citizens can check whether their name appears in the list of beneficiaries. To Download the complete rural and urban list, click the link – Ayushman Bharat Haryana Beneficiary List
Feedback & Grievances – In case of any grievance, people can Contact Us using the link – Haryana Ayushman Bharat Complaints
Notifications Regarding PMRSSM – People can receive all new updates and notifications on the Ayushman Bharat Haryana Portal. To access the HRY-NHA notification page, click at HRY-NHA Notifications
Eligibility Criteria for Haryana AB-NHPM – People must fulfill the eligibility criteria to avail the benefits of Haryana Ayushman Bharat Yojana – Check Eligibility
Ayushman Bharat Haryana Portal Launch

Also check the PMRSSM Haryana Hospital Empanelment Operational Guidelines for the current month at Ayushman Bharat Haryana Portal. 
National Health Protection Scheme will get launched in Haryana on 15 August 2018. For more details, visit the official website – https://ayushmanbharatharyana.in/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
