
Haryana government has doubled the incentive amount to Rs. 2.5 lakh under Mukhya Mantri Samajik Samrasta Antarjatiya Vivah Shagun Yojana. This scheme will promote communal harmony and will also promote inter caste marriages. To avail this incentive under Inter Caste Vivah Shagun Yojana, one of the spouse must belong to Scheduled Caste. This amount will be provided in the form of Fixed Deposit (FD) in the name of couple after marriage registration.
The sharing of funds for this scheme will be done in 50:50 manner between central and state government. All the married couples can apply for this incentive amount within 1 year after the date of marriage. 
CM Inter Caste Marriage Assistance Scheme will enable the couples from the poor sections of the society to lead a better life after marriage. Only the couples residing in Haryana can apply to avail incentive.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Incentive Amount – Inter Caste Vivah Shagun Yojana
THe state govt. of Haryana has doubled the incentive amount under Mukhya Mantri Samajik Samrasta Antarjatiya Vivah Shagun Yojana. The incentive amount which will now be provided to the couples is Rs. 2.5 lakh. This amount will be given in the form of FD jointly in the name of couple. To avail this benefit, all the couples must submit their marriage registration certificate to the concerned authorities.
This FD will be done in a government or a nationalized bank with lock-in period of 3 years with no pre-mature encashment facility. All the applicant couples must be a permanent resident of Haryana. After 3 years, couples can make withdrawal of the complete amount to lead a better life.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Eligibility for Mukhya Mantri Samajik Samrasta Antarjatiya Vivah Shagun Yojana
All the candidates must fulfill the following eligibility criteria for Inter Caste Vivah Shagun Yojana:-

Both the spouses must be a citizen of India and one of the spouse should be Scheduled Caste (SC) and a permanent resident of Haryana.
Couple must have not availed benefit under any other similar scheme.
All the applicants will be given this grant amount only for one time at the time of first marriage. Couple can apply for the incentive within 1 year from the date of marriage.

All the applicants who wants to avail this Marriage Assistance incentive must submit a certificate from District Magistrate (Civil Marriage) or Registration Certificate from Tehsil Dar / SDM. District Welfare Officers will perform documents verification and also verify the application and place of marriage.
After the verification process is complete, DWOs are entitled to sanction the amount. Finally, DWO will disburse / deposit the incentive amount in the Joint account of the couple. For more details – Click here





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
