
हरियाणा सरकार द्वारा किसानों का ऑनलाइन पंजीकरण अब कृषि एवं किसान कल्याण विभाग के पोर्टल www.jalhijiwan.ekharid.in पर, किसानों को धान की जगह अब मक्का, अरहर, सोयाबीन की फसल बोने पर मिलेगा अतिरिक्त लाभ, आवेदन की तारीख 27 May 2019 से 15 June 2019 तक

Table of Contents

Districts to Produce Makka, Arhar Instead of Rice – 1st PhaseHaryana Farmer Registration for Maize, Arhar Crops Instead of RiceBenefits of Ekharid to Save Water – Jal Hi Jiwan Hai Haryana
As we all know that the production of Dhaan or Rice consumes a lots of water. Accordingly, lots of water gets wasted during cultivation of rice (धान). As per an estimate, in order to produce 1 kg of rice, approx. 3,000 to 5,000 litres of water gets consumed. To reduce water consumption and its wastage, the state govt. of Haryana is going to start a new scheme.
Under this new scheme, all the farmers would be encouraged to produce other crops namely maize (makka), arhar (pulses) instead of cultivation of rice (dhaan). In the first phase, the scheme would be implemented in 1 part of 7 major rice producing districts. In this pariyojana, around 50,000 hectares of land would be cultivated with crops like makka, arhar & others instead of rice.
Districts to Produce Makka, Arhar Instead of Rice – 1st Phase
The district wise part details where this scheme would be firstly implemented are listed here:- 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});



District Name
Block Name


Ambala
1st block


Yamunanagar
Radaur Municipality Town


Kurukshetra
Thanesar


Kaithal
Pundri


Karnal
Assandh


Sonipat
Ganaur


Jind
Narwana


Haryana Farmer Registration for Maize, Arhar Crops Instead of Rice
All the farmers can make their registration at the official www.jalhijiwan.ekharid.in portal launched by Agriculture and Farmers Welfare department. The starting date to make online registration is 27 May 2019 and the last date for registrations is 15 June 2019. 
On cultivation of maize and arhar pulses instead of dhaan, around 14,000 litres of water per hectare would be saved. As we all know, that the entire India is facing problem of acute shortage of water which is of serious concern. For more details, farmers can contact their nearest agriculture development officer. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Benefits of Ekharid to Save Water – Jal Hi Jiwan Hai Haryana
The state govt. of Haryana has given assurance that the makka, arhar and other crops cultivated in place of rice crop would be procured by government agencies at minimum support prices. 

फसल विविधीकरण के प्रति किसानों का रुझान बढ़ाने के लिए अब मक्का, अरहर, सोयाबीन और अन्य फसलों के लिए भी न्यूनतम मूल्य निर्धारित करेगी सरकार pic.twitter.com/JuU4a707zM
— CMO Haryana (@cmohry) May 26, 2019

The state govt. will provide high quality seeds absolutely free. The cost of seeds which would be provided by the govt. costs around Rs. 1200 to Rs. 2000 per acre in open market. The state govt. will provide Rs. 2000 per acre as subsidy (financial assistance) to farmers. In addition to this, the premium amount of the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY scheme) would be borne by the Haryana government. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: www.jalhijiwan.ekharid.in
SAVE AS PDF
