
हरियाणा मेरी फसल मेरा ब्यौरा पोर्टल

Table of Contents

Haryana Meri Fasal Mera Byora Farmers Registration 2020Haryana Meri Fasal Mera Byora Online Registration FormMarginal Farmers Registration of Crops (Only for Paddy)Meri Fasal Mera Byora Portal 2020Haryana Meri Fasal Mera Byora Registration BenefitsList of Documents for Meri Fasal Mera Byora RegistrationAn Overview of Meri Fasal Mera Byora Haryana 2020Meri Fasal Mera Byora Helpline
In Haryana, farmers can now make online registration of details of crops (e-kharid) through Meri Fasal Mera Byora Portal at fasal.haryana.gov.in. Haryana crop details online registrations can be done by the village level entrepreneurs (VLEs) absolutely free at Atal Seva Kendra in villages or common service centres (CSCs). All the farmers can even make crop details online registration on their own at edisha.gov.in.
LATEST UPDATE: Registration at Meri Fasal Mera Byora Portal fasal.haryana.gov.in has been started for paddy procurement for farmers outside the state.
If any farmer wants to sell their agricultural produce at MSP, then he must make online registration of crops at meri fasal mera byora portal. VLEs can carry out the work of making crop registrations online in Haryana. For this, each VLE will get Rs. 5 per khevat which would be provided directly into their bank accounts.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Meri Fasal Mera Byora Farmers Registration 2020
From 5 October 2020 onward, Haryana govt. has started procuring paddy from farmers outside the state. This will help farmers of other states in selling their crops during the paddy procurement season which will discourage profiteering of traders. As per an official release, during procurement, the farmers should bring the certified copies of documents showing that they have sown paddy in their fields as owner or tenant. Farmers will get the benefit of many schemes of Haryana government directly by making registration at the official website.
Haryana Meri Fasal Mera Byora Online Registration Form
Below is the complete procedure to make online registration of crop details (e-Kharid) of farmers:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Firstly visit the official website at fasal.haryana.gov.inAt the homepage, click at the “पंजीकरण (क्लिक करें)” link as shown in the figure:-
Haryana Meri Fasal Mera Byora Portal Registration
Direct Link – https://fasal.haryana.gov.in/farmerreg
Meri Fasal Mera Byora Portal Online Registration
Enter the mobile number (किसान(काश्तकार) पंजीकरण करने के लिये अपना मोबाइल नंबर सर्च बॉक्स मे भर कर खोजें). Afterwards, enter the OTP, enter crop sown details as shown here:-
Meri Fasal Mera Byora Crop Sown Details
Then applicants can click at “जारी रखें” button to open the farmers registration form as shown below:-
Meri Fasal Mera Byora Registration Form Farmer
Here farmers can make online registration for crops and submit crop details.
All these details for Online Registration of crops can either be filled by the VLEs or by farmers itself. Information received on this portal can be shared with farmers and Agriculture and Farmers Welfare department. All the information uploaded by the farmers cannot be used in any other legal claim. Patwaris would share data related to Jamabandhi. This process will ease down the crops procurement procedure.
Marginal Farmers Registration of Crops (Only for Paddy)
At the official website, farmers can click at the “सीमान्त किसान पंजीकरण (केवल धान के लिए)” link. Here is the direct link to make registration of paddy for marginal farmers – https://fasal.haryana.gov.in/nsreglogin. The marginal farmers registration form for paddy will appear as shown below:-
Meri Fasal Mera Byora Registration Marginal Farmers for Paddy 
Here farmers can enter the mobile number, captcha and click at “Proceed” button to start filling Meri Fasal Mera Byora Registration Form. 
Meri Fasal Mera Byora Portal 2020
The state govt. of Haryana has started online registration of farmers at Meri Fasal Mera Byora Portal from 5 October 2020. Farmers can apply online before last date for registration of crops at the official website. On October 5, a total of 8,34,721.26 quintal of paddy arrived in the Haryana mandi of which 43,794.44 quintals was purchased and 56,372.23 quintals of bajra arrived of which 4,309.2 quintals was purchased.
This portal has brought agriculture and farmers welfare departments on single platform. Along with this, department of Revenue, dept. of food, civil supplies and consumer affairs and dept. of science and technology have also been brought to this platform. This online portal will provide information related to sowing, harvesting season and market on real time basis to farmers. Through Meri Fasal Mera Byora Portal 2020, farmers can make online registration by entering their crop details.
Haryana Meri Fasal Mera Byora Registration Benefits
Here the benefits of making registration at official portal by the farmers at fasal.haryana.gov.in:-
To ensure timely availability of subsidy on food, seeds, loans and agricultural equipment.To provide assistance to farmers in case of natural disaster or calamities. On making registration, farmers will get compensation for their crop loss.Providing benefits of government schemes, initiatives and grievance redressal of farmers on a single platform.Enabling farmers registration, crop registration and farm details at one place.To provide information regarding sowing, harvesting of crops and mandis to ensure proper selling of crops.
List of Documents for Meri Fasal Mera Byora Registration
Here is the complete list of documents to make registration at Meri Fasal Mera Byora Portal:-1) Aadhaar Card of Applicants2) Residential Certificate3) Identity Certificate4) Mobile Number5) Land Documents of Farmers6) Recent Passport Size Photograph
An Overview of Meri Fasal Mera Byora Haryana 2020
Here is an overview of the Meri Fasal Mera Byora Portal of Haryana at which farmers registration is necessary for crop procurement:-
Scheme NameMeri Fasal Mera ByoraState NameHaryanaPurposeFarmers Registration for Crops (e-Kharid), farm detailsBeneficiariesFarmersApplication ModeOnlineOfficial websitehttps://www.fasal.haryana.gov.in/
Meri Fasal Mera Byora Helpline
For any issue regarding the use and registration of crops on Meri Fasal Mera Byora Portal, farmers can reach at the following contact detailsTOLL FREE NUMBER: 1800-180-2117, 1800-180-2060 (9 am to 5 pm)EMAIL: mfmb-agri[at]hry[dot]gov[dot]in, hsamb[dot]helpdesk[at]gmail[dot]com





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: fasalhry.in
SAVE AS PDF
