
हरियाणा राशन कार्ड नयी लिस्ट (जिला वार) 2020 डाउनलोड करें आधिकारिक वेबसाइट hr.epds.nic.in पर, ऑनलाइन APL / BPL / NFSA परिवारों की राशन कार्ड सूची में अपना नाम खोजें

Table of Contents

Haryana Ration Card List 2020 District Wise Download (Find Name)Visit official websiteClick MIS & Reports LinkClick at Ration Card link to open DFSO wise RC DetailsOpen AFSO Wise Ration Card ListOpen FPS Wise Ration Card ReportCheck Ration Card HOF Wise ReportOpen Haryana Ration Card List District WiseHaryana Ration Card Online Registration at Antyodaya Saral PortalHaryana Ration Card Online Application Form at Antyodaya Saral PortalHow to Download Haryana Ration Card Apply Form PDFWhat is the Eligibility Criteria for Haryana Ration CardList of Documents Required for New Ration Card in HaryanaAn Overview of Haryana Ration CardHelpline Number (Toll Free) for Haryana Ration Card
Haryana Ration Card List 2020 | Haryana Ration Card List District Wise | BPL Ration Card List Haryana 2020 | Haryana Ration Card List Online | Haryana New Ration Card List | EPDS Haryana NFSA Ration Card List
Food and Civil Supplies Department has released the district wise Haryana Ration Card List 2020 online at hr.epds.nic.in/HRY/epds (हरियाणा राशन कार्ड सूची ऑनलाइन). All the citizens who had previously filled in Haryana Ration Card Application Form for name inclusion can now check their name online in below poverty line (BPL) Haryana Ration Card List 2020. People can also download the list of eligible National Food Security Act (NFSA) beneficiaries. EPDS Haryana BPL / NFSA Ration Card New List 2020 is now available online.
Haryana govt. has made new ration card list 2020 public in order to make the process of finding name of beneficiaries in BPL Ration Card List Haryana 2020 easier. People can also find their name online in the EPDS Haryana NFSA Ration Card List. People can now even find their name in the district wise ration card list for below poverty line (BPL) / Antyodaya beneficiaries.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

NFSA / BPL Ration Card in Haryana is an essential document for the APL / BPL people to take benefits of most govt. schemes. It is important to note that ration card holders only can purchase Ration at subsidized rates from Ration Shops located nearby. Moreover, ration card holders can only take benefits of National Food Security Scheme – NFSA (AAY + PHH).
Haryana Ration Card List 2020 District Wise Download (Find Name)


All the candidates who had previously applied for the new ration card now check their name in Haryana new ration card list 2020 for NFSA beneficiaries as per the procedure below:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Total Time: 9 minutes


Visit official website
Firstly visit the official website of dept. of food and civil supplies at hr.epds.nic.in/HRY/epds



Click MIS & Reports Link
At the homepage, click at “MIS & Reports” section and then click at “Reports” option to open the Haryana ration card list online find page as shown below.



Click at Ration Card link to open DFSO wise RC Details
Here candidates can choose the “Ration Card” option to open DFSO wise EPDS Haryana Ration Card List (Haryana NFSA Ration Card List) as shown below.



Open AFSO Wise Ration Card List
Here click at the “DFSO Name” to open the AFSO wise Haryana ration card list 2020.



Open FPS Wise Ration Card Report
Now click at the link under AFSO Name section as in the previous step to open the APL / BPL Ration Card List Haryana 2020 as shown below.



Check Ration Card HOF Wise Report
Now click at the “FPS ID” to open the Haryana new ration card list (Head of Family Wise).



Open Haryana Ration Card List District Wise
Finally click at the “View” button to open the Haryana Ration Card List district wise as shown below.




People can take a printout of the Ration Card after finding their name online in the Haryana Ration Card List of beneficiaries.
Haryana Ration Card Online Registration at Antyodaya Saral Portal
The citizens of Haryana whose name is not present in the Ration Card List can apply online for new ration card at the official website. Here is the complete process to fill registration form for name inclusion in Haryana RC Holder list:-
Visit the official website at saralharyana.gov.inAt the homepage, click at the “New User? Register Here” link under ‘Sign In Here’ section:-

Ration Card Haryana Registration Antyodaya Saral Portal
Afterwards, the Haryana Ration Card online registration form 2020 will appear as shown below:-

Haryana Ration Card Online Registration Form
Here enter all the necessary details, click at the Submit button to complete the registration process for ration card in Haryana.
Then candidates can make login using their Login Id and Password.
Haryana Ration Card Online Application Form at Antyodaya Saral Portal
Using the Login Id and password, people can make login at the Antyodaya Saral Haryana portal. At the dashboard, click at the “Apply For Services” link and then click at “View All Available Services” link. Then you can type ration card in the search box to avail the following services as follows:-
Add New Member in Ration Card
To add a new member in ration card of Haryana, check the application form:-
Add New Member Ration Card Haryana
Delete Member in Ration Card
To delete an existing member in ration card, check the online application form here:-
Delete Member Ration Card Haryana
Issuance of Duplicate Ration Card
To issue a duplicate ration card, check the apply online form here:-
Haryana Duplicate Ration Card Issuance Form
Issuance of New Ration Card on Receipt of D1 Form
For issuing a new ration card upon receipt of D1 form, check the online application form here:-
Haryana New Ration Card Online Application Form
Modify Member Details in Ration Card
For modification of member details in Ration Card of Haryana, check apply online form:-
Modification Member Details Ration Card Haryana
Surrender Ration Card
To surrender your ration card, check online application form here:-
Surrender Ration Card Apply Form Haryana
Transfer Ration Card
To transfer your ration card, check apply online form here:-
Transfer Ration Card Apply Form Haryana
How to Download Haryana Ration Card Apply Form PDF
People can now download the Haryana ration card application form in PDF format through the link given below:-Haryana Ration Card Application Form PDF Download
Application Fees
There is no application form filling fee and there is no requirement to pay any fees while applying online for new ration card in Haryana. However, applicants can collect their ration cards from the concerned authorities on making a payment of Rs. 5 per copy.
Timelines for Issuing Ration Card in Haryana
All the applicants can submit the complete Haryana Ration Card online application form and new ration cards would be issued within 15 days of submission of application. However in certain cases, 1 month time is required to issue a new ration card.
Linking of Aadhaar Card with Ration Card
People can now link their Unique Identification Number or Aadhaar Card with their ration card. This can be done online by visiting the official portal and then clicking at the “Link to UID” link.
What is the Eligibility Criteria for Haryana Ration Card
All the applicants must meet the basic eligibility criteria to get a new ration card in Haryana:-a) Applicants who are permanent resident of Haryana can apply.b) Households not already having ration card in the state are eligible.c) Newly married couples can apply for new ration card.d) Citizens having temporary ration cards whose date has been expired are eligible.
It is important to note that the issue of new ration card in Haryana would be based on the household income as well as economic conditions of the family.
List of Documents Required for New Ration Card in Haryana
Below is the complete list of documents required to apply online for new ration card in Haryana:-
Residential proof such as Voter ID, Driving License, Aadhaar Card (Scanned Copy)Age Certificate (Scanned Copy)Caste Certificate (Scanned Copy)Identity Proof like Voter ID, PAN Card, Driving Licence, Aadhar Card (Scanned Copy)Income proof of the family (Scanned Copy)Recent Passport Size Photograph of the applicantValid Mobile Number / E-mail IDPrevious Electricity BillsBank PassbookGas Connection DetailsSelf Declaration and Certificate issued by Ward Councillor/ PradhanTenancy Agreement (if applicable)
In case of non-possession of above mentioned documents, applications for new ration cards are liable to get rejected.
An Overview of Haryana Ration Card
Here is an overview of Haryana Ration Card which is mentioned in the table below:-
Service TypeRation CardState NameHaryanaArticle CategoryList / Status / Application FormConcerned DepartmentFood, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department, Govt. of HaryanaApplicable Year2020Mode of Checking Status / List / ApplicationOnlineOfficial Portalhttp://hr.epds.nic.in/HRY/epds#, https://haryanafood.gov.in/en-us/
Helpline Number (Toll Free) for Haryana Ration Card
People can now contact the Food, Civil Supplies & Consumer Affairs Department, Haryana. The helpline number for Haryana Ration Card is 1967 while toll free contact is 1800-180-2087. For more details, visit the official website at haryanafood.gov.in





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: hr.epds.nic.in
SAVE AS PDF
