
हरियाणा श्रमिक विभाग की अंपगता सहायता योजना 2019 ऑनलाइन पंजीकरण / आवेदन पत्र आधिकारिक वेबसाइट hrylabour.gov.in पर उपलब्ध हैं, पंजीकृत कामगार की कार्य स्थल पर किसी दुर्घटना में स्थाई रूप से अपंग होने पर अपंगता प्रतिशतता के आधार पर 1.5 लाख से 3 लाख तक की एक मुश्त वित्तीय सहायता दी जाती है, जानिये पात्रता और आवेदन की शर्तें

Table of Contents

Haryana Labour Disability Assistance Scheme 2019Haryana Labour Department Disability Assistance Scheme Form OnlineHaryana Labour Welfare Board Disability Assistance Scheme EligibilityHaryana Labour Department Disability Assistance Scheme Conditions
The labour department of Haryana has launched Disability Assistance Scheme for persons with disability (PWDs). Under this Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Handicap (Viklang Jan) Assistance Scheme, labor dept. provides financial assistance to disabled persons. Interested unorganized sector labourers can avail financial aid of Rs. 1.5 lakh to Rs 3 lakh by filling Labour Welfare Board Handicapped Assistance Scheme online application form at hrylabour.gov.in
Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Disability Assistance Scheme for disabled persons is going to assist laborers in their hour of need. Haryana Labour Handicap Assistance Scheme is applicable for all the registered labourers who got permanently disabled due to accident at work site.
All the building and construction workers (BOCW) can now apply online for Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Handicapped Assistance Scheme and fill Haryana Labour Disabled Assistance Scheme online registration / application form.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Labour Disability Assistance Scheme 2019
Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Disability Assistance Scheme 2019 aims to provide financial assistance of Rs. 1.5 lakh to 3 lakh to the registered labourers. This amount would be given as one time settlement and the assistance would be given on the permanent disability percentage. For upto 50% handicapped percentage, the assistance amount is Rs. 1.5 lakh. For 51% to 75% disability percentage, assistance amount is Rs. 2 lakh and for 76% and above disability percentage, assistance amount is Rs. 3 lakh.
Haryana Labour Department Disability Assistance Scheme Form Online
All the candidates can firstly visit the official website at hrylabour.gov.in. At the homepage, go to the “E-Services” section and make registration using Aadhaar card. Then make a login at the homepage of the official Labour dept. website and fill the Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Disability Assistance Scheme online registration form.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

To read the complete Handicapped Assistance Scheme details, click at the link – Haryana Labour Disability Assistance Scheme
Haryana Labour Welfare Board Disability Assistance Scheme Eligibility
Under the viklang assistance scheme of Haryana Labour Welfare fund, labour board provides Rs. 1.5 to 3 lakh on permanent disability of labourers at worksite. The eligibility criteria to avail Haryana Labour Disability Assistance Scheme are as follows:-


Eligibility / पात्रता


Membership Years / सदस्यता वर्ष
1


Apply Frequency / आवेदन की सीमा
1


Scheme For / इस योजना के लिए
All


Continue After Death / मृत्यु के बाद जारी
No


Labour Welfare Fund Haryana Disability Assistance Scheme 2019 is available for all registered workers of the Haryana state who suffers from permanent disability due to any accident at worksite.
Haryana Labour Department Disability Assistance Scheme Conditions
People can follow the below mentioned conditions to avail financial aid under Labour Welfare Board Disabled Assistance Scheme in Haryana:-

All the labourers must be registered and have permanent membership / subscription.
In the identity certificate of the registered laborers, registration fees and updated subscription amount is to be mentioned.
Candidates must submit the permanent Disability Certificate from the Health department of Haryana govt.

All the disabled persons needs to apply online for Handicapped Assistance Scheme of Haryana Labour Department within 1 year of occurrence of disability. This assistance scheme for disabled persons has the main motto to create the best environment for the registered workers. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: hrylabour.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
