
The state government of Haryana is going to launch Cashless Treatment Scheme for the state government employees and pensioners. Under the scheme, the beneficiary will get cashless medical services up to Rs. 5 lakh. This scheme will start from 30 November 2017 in the state. 
The cashless treatment will function under the direction of Haryana Health Department. The benefit of the scheme is only for regular state government employees and pensioners. The pensioners will be identified on the basis of the report from Finance Department & NIC while the employees will select on the basis of HRMS Data.
However, the Health Department will also upload this date on the official website. The hospital can check the details of beneficiaries by going to the official website of Health Department.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Highlights Cashless Treatment Scheme

The benefit of the scheme is only for regular employees of State government and pensioners.
The spouse and dependent on state govt. employees and pensioners will not be able to get the benefits of this scheme.
However, the spouse and dependent on state govt. employees and pensioners will get the medical service as per the existing policy of reimbursement issued dated May 6, 2005.
The beneficiary will be able to get medical services up to a maximum limit of Rs. 5 lakh. In case the cost of treatment is exceeded, then the employee or pensioner will have to pay the remaining amount.
The exceeded amount will be paid by the employee or pensioner. Their relative department will later reimburse this excess amount as per the entitlement and existing reimbursement policy.
Haryana Govt. will issue Identity Cards which would be linked with Aadhar to the regular employees and pensioners while the pensioners will have to carry Pension Payment Order (PPO) as Identity Proof to avail the benefits of the scheme.

List of Six Diseases
The cashless treatment scheme would be applicable only for six life-threatening conditions as given below:-


brain haemorrhage
cardiac emergency


coma
accident


third and fourth stage of cancer
electrocution


Under the scheme, the beneficiary will be able to get treatment at all government medical colleges and government aided Medical Colleges all over the state, all district hospitals, other health institutions of the state government and all private hospitals empanelled under the Haryana government.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The interested candidate can download the list of all the empanelled hospitals under the Haryana government. Below given the link to download the PDF.
Haryana Empanelled Hospitals 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
