


Table of Contents

Haryana Farmers Pension Scheme 2019-2020Benefits of Haryana Kisan Pension YojanaHaryana Farmers Pension Scheme Eligibility CriteriaDocuments Required for Haryana Kisan Pension YojanaHaryana Kisan Pension Yojana Application Process
Haryana Government has given a gift to poor people by launching Farmers Monthly Pension Scheme 2019-2020. Under this Kisan Pension Yojana, all the small and marginal farmers will get Rs. 3,000 per month as pension. This financial assistance under Kisaan Pension Yojna will be provided in addition to PM-KISAN Samman Nidhi Yojana & PM Kisan Maan-dhan Yojna. 
This Farmers Monthly Pension Scheme was announced in the Haryana Budget 2019-2020. All the poor farmers whose annual income is less than Rs. 1.80 lakh would be eligible. In this article, we will provide complete details of this Haryana Kisan Pension Scheme.
The main purpose of Haryana Farmers Pension Scheme 2019 is to ensure better livelihood conditions to the farmers in the state. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Farmers Pension Scheme 2019-2020
In Haryana Kisan Pension Yojana, all the farmers will get Rs. 3,000 per month as pension on attaining the age of 60 years. 
Benefits of Haryana Kisan Pension Yojana
The benefits of Farmers Pension Scheme are as follows:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


This pension scheme will empower the farmers and will serve better livelihood opportunities to them.
Farmers Pension Scheme in Haryana would lessen the burden of farmer’s workload.
Around 16 lakh farmers and 2.6 agricultural labourers would benefit from this pension scheme for farmers in Haryana.
This scheme will afford enhancement to agricultural sectors of state.

Haryana Farmers Pension Scheme Eligibility Criteria
Below is the eligibility criteria to avail the benefits of this pension scheme for farmers:-

Kisan Pension Yojana is applicable for small and marginal farmers and people who work as labour in farms.
The farmers age must be above 60 years to become eligible for Farmers Monthly Pension Scheme.
Farmer must be a permanent resident of Haryana.
The annual income of the family of farmers from all sources must not exceed Rs. 1,80,000.

Documents Required for Haryana Kisan Pension Yojana
The following are the documents specified while applying for the Haryana Kisan Pension Yojana:-

Photograph – Copy of the applicant passport size photograph.
Aadhaar Card – Copy of applicant aadhaar card.
Property Details – Copy of applicant land details.
Bank Details – Copy of applicant land details.
Stamp Duty – Applicant should have affidavits on their stamp paper of 10 rupees in relation to their land.

In order to implement Haryana Farmer Pension Scheme, the state govt. has allocated Rs. 1500 crores.
Haryana Kisan Pension Yojana Application Process
Haryana govt. has not yet declared the online application process for Haryana Kisan Pension Yojana. In case the application process has been rolled out, then the eligible farmers can get application form from authorized website of Haryana government.
The payment of first installment of premium would be deducted from PM-KISAN bank accounts of farmers in order to verify bank accounts of farmers. That amount would soon be refunded to Mukhyamantri Parivar Samriddhi Yojana (PM-KISAN Maandhan Yojana) bank accounts of farmers.

हरियाणा के किसानों को मासिक पेंशन की सौगात pic.twitter.com/jlMGVQa03s
— CMO Haryana (@cmohry) September 8, 2019
 
The state govt. would organize special gram sabhas in Haryana from 9 September 2019. In these gram sabhas, the list of eligible farmers would be published. Moreover, farmers can also file complaints in these gram sabhas. In case of any grievance or any issue of list renewal, farmers can make a visit to the nearest Agriculture Development Officer. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://twitter.com/cmohry/status/1170591573953769473?s=19
SAVE AS PDF
