
हरियाणा श्रमिक विभाग की साईकिल योजना 2019 ऑनलाइन पंजीकरण / आवेदन पत्र आधिकारिक वेबसाइट hrylabour.gov.in पर उपलब्ध हैं, पंजीकृत श्रमिकों को साईकिल खरीदने पर 3,000 रुपये की वित्तीय सहायता, जानिये पात्रता और आवेदन की शर्तें

Table of Contents

Haryana Labour Bicycle Scheme (Cycle Yojana) 2019Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Bicycle Scheme 2019 FormHaryana Labour Welfare Board Cycle Yojana ConditionsCycle Yojana Eligibility Haryana Labour
The labour department Haryana has launched Bicycle Scheme for registered labourers. Under this Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Bicycle Scheme 2019, workers will get financial assistance on purchase of cycle upto Rs. 3,000. The Haryana Labour Welfare Board Cycle Yojana Scheme Form is now available at hrylabour.gov.in for building and construction workers (BOCW). 
The main objective of the Haryana Labour Bicycle Scheme is to provide Rs. 3,000 to buy a bicycle for registered workers. Labour department of Haryana aims to provide facilities to the registered laborers for going up to work. Registered labourers would be encouraged to purchase cycle which will also keep them healthy and independent.
All the unorganized sector workers can now apply online for Cycle Yojana and fill Haryana Labour Bicycle Scheme online registration / application form.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Labour Bicycle Scheme (Cycle Yojana) 2019
Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Bicycle Scheme 2019 aims to provide financial assistance of Rs. 3,000 to the registered labourers for purchase of cycle. The main aim of Cycle Yojana in Haryana is to provide financial assistance to uplift the life of unorganized sector workers. Moreover, labour department wants to create the best environment for the registered workers.
Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Bicycle Scheme 2019 Form
All the candidates can firstly visit the official website at hrylabour.gov.in. At the homepage, go to the “E-Services” section and make registration using Aadhaar card. Then make a login at the homepage of the official Labour dept. website and fill the Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Bicycle Scheme online registration form.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

To read the complete scheme details, click at the link – Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Bicycle Scheme 2019 
Haryana Labour Welfare Board Cycle Yojana Conditions
Under the scheme the state government of Haryana gives Rs. 3000 to purchase bicycle for going to work place without any hassle and is available for all registered workers of the Haryana state. The terms and conditions to avail Haryana Labour Bicycle Scheme are as follows:-

The worker must be registered with at-least 1 year of regular membership / subscription
This facility is only available for 1 time in 3 years duration.
Moreover, applicant must be a resident of Haryana.

Cycle Yojana Eligibility Haryana Labour
The eligibility criteria for Cycle Yojana of Haryana Labour Department is mentioned in the table below:-


Eligibility Criteria


Membership Years / सदस्यता वर्ष
1


Apply Frequency / आवेदन की सीमा
1


Scheme For / इस योजना के लिए
All


Continue After Death / मृत्यु के बाद जारी
No


For more details contact the Haryana Labour Welfare Board : 0172-2560226, Bays No. 29-30 (Pocket-II), Sector-04, Panchkula (Haryana) – 134112, contact number : 1800-180-2129 (Toll Free Number), head office : 0172-2701373, IT Cell: 0172-2971057.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: hrylabour.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
