
Haryana cabinet has approved the Affordable Housing Policy (PMAY) 2018 for area falling within municipal limits (outside core limits). This policy would help in realizing the PM Modi’s vision of “Housing For All” to provide houses to each homeless person. AHP Policy under PM Awas Yojana will maximize the benefits to the identified eligible PMAY beneficiaries in Haryana.
Maximum allotment rate is Rs. 3500 per sq.ft in Gurugram and Faridabad while the lowest allotment rate is Rs. 2100 per sq.ft. AHP will encourage planning and completion of group housing projects, apartments of pre-defined size at pre-defined rates would be made available to provide more houses in residential sectors within municipal limits.
PMAY HFA is a flagship scheme of the Modi govt. to provide shelter to poor people. Till date, more than 1 crore houses have been sanctioned under PMAY Urban and PMAY Gramin combined across the country. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Affordable Housing Policy (PMAY) 2018
Haryana cabinet committee meeting held on 15 November 2018 approves Affordable Housing Policy (PMAY) 2018 under the chairmanship of CM Manohar Lal Khattar. This new policy is for areas outside the core limits which lie within the municipal limits. 
Affordable Housing Policy (AHP) is going to encourage the planning and completion of Group Housing Projects. In these projects, apartments of pre-defined size are made available at pre defined rates within a target time frame to ensure increased supply of affordable housing in the residential sectors falling in municipal limits. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

These apartments are predominantly given to the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna (PMAY) beneficiaries as identified by the department of Urban Local Bodies (ULBs). All these projects are required to be essentially completed within 2 years from the approval of building plans or grant of environmental clearance (whichever is later). 
Maximum allotment rate is Rs. 3500 per sq.ft in Gurugram and Faridabad, Rs. 3000 per sq.ft in Panchkula and Pinjore and Kalka, Rs. 2500 per sq.ft in Karnal, Ambala, Hisar, Yamunanagar, Rohtak, Kurukshetra, Bahadurgarh, Bawal, Rewari, Palwal, Hodal, Dharuhera and Ganaur and Rs. 2100 per sq.ft in rest of the development plans.
This will help in achieving the motive of Housing for all and to maximize the benefit to the intended beneficiaries identified in the PMAY.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
