
हरियाणा श्रमिक विभाग की अंपगता पेंशन योजना 2019 ऑनलाइन पंजीकरण / आवेदन पत्र आधिकारिक वेबसाइट hrylabour.gov.in पर उपलब्ध हैं, पंजीकृत अंपग श्रमिकों को 3 हज़ार रुपये प्रति माह की वित्तीय सहायता, जानिये पात्रता और आवेदन की शर्तें

Table of Contents

Haryana Labour Handicapped Pension Scheme 2019Haryana Labour Department Handicap Pension Scheme Form OnlineHaryana Labour Welfare Board Haryana Viklang Pension Scheme EligibilityHaryana Labour Disabled Pension Scheme for Persons with Disabilities Conditions
The labour department of Haryana has launched Handicapped Pension Scheme for persons with disability (PWDs). Under this Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Handicap (Viklang Jan) Pension Scheme, labor dept. provides financial assistance to disabled persons. Interested unorganized sector labourers can avail financial aid of Rs. 3000 by filling Labour Welfare Board Handicapped Pension Scheme online application form at hrylabour.gov.in
Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Viklang Pension Scheme for persons with disabilities is going to assist laborers in their hour of need. Haryana Labour Handicap Pension Scheme is applicable for all the registered labourers who are suffering from contagion disease (sankramak bimari) or got disabled due to any accident at the worksite. 
All the building and construction workers (BOCW) can now apply online for Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Handicap Pension Scheme and fill Haryana Labour Disabled Pension Scheme online registration / application form.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Labour Handicapped Pension Scheme 2019
Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Handicapped Pension Scheme 2019 aims to provide financial assistance of Rs. 3,000 per month to the registered labourers. This pension scheme for disabled persons has the main motto to create the best environment for the registered workers.
Haryana Labour Department Handicap Pension Scheme Form Online
All the candidates can firstly visit the official website at hrylabour.gov.in. At the homepage, go to the “E-Services” section and make registration using Aadhaar card. Then make a login at the homepage of the official Labour dept. website and fill the Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Handicap Pension Scheme online registration form.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

To read the complete Viklang Pension Scheme details, click at the link – Haryana Labour Handicap Pension Yojana
Haryana Labour Welfare Board Haryana Viklang Pension Scheme Eligibility
Under the viklang pension scheme of Haryana Labour Welfare Board, welfare fund provides Rs. 3,000 per month as assistance to disabled laborers. The terms and conditions to avail Haryana Labour Handicap Pension Yojana are as follows:-


Eligibility / पात्रता


Membership Years / सदस्यता वर्ष
1


Apply Frequency / आवेदन की सीमा
1


Scheme For / इस योजना के लिए
All


Continue After Death / मृत्यु के बाद जारी
No


Labour Welfare Fund Haryana Viklang Pension Scheme 2019 is available for all registered workers of the Haryana state who are suffering from infectious diseases or got disabled at worksite. 
Haryana Labour Disabled Pension Scheme for Persons with Disabilities Conditions
People can follow the below mentioned conditions to avail financial aid under Labour Welfare Board Disabled Pension Scheme in Haryana:-

All the labourers must be registered with at-least 1 year membership / subscription.
In the identity certificate of the registered laborers, registration fees and updated subscription amount is to be mentioned.
Candidates must produced Disability Certificate (70% to 100% permanent disability) issued by the Health department of Haryana.

All the disabled persons needs to apply online within 1 year of occuring of disability.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: hrylabour.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
