
The state government of Haryana has launched a scheme named as “Uchch Shiksha Loan Yojana” or the Higher Education Loan Scheme for poor girl students across the state. The main objective of this scheme is to provide loan facility to those girls who have left their studies incomplete for not being able to pay the fee amount of higher studies. 
Under Uchch Shiksha Loan Yojana, the state government will provide financial assistance to needy girl students to complete their higher studies. The scheme will be operated by the authority of Women Development Corporation, Haryana.
The scheme will help encourage the girl students especially from the backward classes and economically weaker section to pursue higher studies, achieve their career goals and be independent. The education loan for higher studies under the scheme will be provided at a subsidized interest rate of only 5% per annum.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Eligibility for Uchch Shiksha Loan Yojana
Below is the eligibility criteria for Haryana Higher Education Loan Scheme or Uchch Shiksha Loan Yojana

The applicant should be the permanent residence of Haryana.
The applicant should be at least 12th passed.
The benefit of the scheme will be provided only to the girl students in the state.
The age of girl should be 18 years or above.
The financial assistance would be provided only for higher studies.

According to the official data, the literacy rate in Haryana is 67.91 percent, which is higher than the National average of 64.80 percent. The literacy rate for males is 78.49 percent and females is 55.73 percent which is also higher than the national average.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The literacy rate among SC / ST is 55.45 percent which is lower than the national average. Literacy rate among SC / ST female is only 42.26 percent. However, male literacy (66.93 percent) is much higher than the female literacy among SC / ST.
Feature of Uchch Shiksha Loan Yojana

Girl students will get loan only at 5% interest rate.
This scheme will motivate the girls for higher studies.
The women employees of Haryana government will also be eligible for this scheme if the want to pursue higher studies.
The beneficiaries of this loan scheme also will be eligible for higher education in abroad.

Unfortunately, the women are facing many problems including rape, discrimination, inequality etc. throughout the country. To overcome these issues, government should formulate a policy which provide equal opportunity for the girls. 
This scheme will surely improve the condition and encourage the more women / girls to become educated.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
