


Table of Contents

Haryana Old Age Samman Allowance Scheme 2020 DetailsEligibility CriteriaList of Documents RequiredFees for the ServiceHaryana Old Age Pension Scheme 2020 Registration FormHaryana Budhapa Pension Status / Track Old Age Pension Beneficiary DetailsHaryana Old Age Pension Scheme Beneficiary List 2020
Social Justice Department, Haryana Govt. has launched Old Age Samman Allowance Scheme to provide Pension to Senior Citizens. Under this Old Age Pension Scheme 2020, all the people with more than 60 years of age will get Rs. 2000 (previously Rs. 1800) as monthly pension. People of Haryana Domicile can now Download Old Age Pension Scheme Application Form in PDF Format, Check Budhapa Pension Status and Beneficiary List at socialjusticehry.gov.in 
Old Age Pension Scheme & other Social Security Schemes like Widow Pension Scheme, Viklang Pension Yojana in Haryana are implemented fully by the State government. The new rules are in effect from 1 November 2017 in which rate of allowance is increased from Rs. 1800 to Rs. 2000. The total annual income of the family of the applicant from all sources must not exceed Rs. 2 lakh. 
People can download the application form in PDF Format and fill it to avail the benefits of Old Age Pension Scheme. People can also check the Old Age Samman Allowance Status and Budhapa Pension List of Beneficiaries. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Old Age Samman Allowance Scheme 2020 Details
Here are the complete details of the Haryana Old Age Samman Allowance Scheme 2020:- 
Eligibility Criteria

Age 60 years and above.
Domicile and resident of Haryana.
Annual family income (Wife & Husband) less than or equal to Rs. 2 lakhs
School certificate issued by the school having DOB of the applicant is acceptable.

Exclusion: Notwithstanding the above, in case the person is receiving pension from any Government or Local/Statutory Body or any organization substantially financed by any Government or Local/Statutory Body will not be eligible to receive allowance under the Scheme.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Benefits Provided
Rs. 2000 /- per month
List of Documents Required

Age Proof: (Any one of the following)

A.Birth Certificate.
B.School Certificate of either 5th class or 8th class or 10th class as well as School leaving certificate issued by the Head Teacher of Primary School, Head Master/Head Mistress of Middle/High School alongwith copy of school record on basis which the certificate has been issued. The copy of such record attested by Head Teacher/Head Master/Head Mistress.
C.Driving License issued prior to 16.06.2016
D.Passport issued prior to 16.06.2016
E.Pan Card issued prior to 2005
F.Voter card issued or traceable prior to 2005
E.Name of applicant in voter’s list that shows photograph prior to 2005
H.Age proof of older child – If 40 years or more
Note:- If any of the above documents are not available with the applicant, in this case the applicant must go to the DSWO office and write a letter to the District Social Welfare Officer. So that the District Social Welfare Officer can refer the case to a team of two doctors constituted in the civil hospital of the district to assess the age of the applicant.


Residential Proof : Any one of the following documents for the domicile of Haryana issued prior to 15 years to date of application will be accepted:-

Ration Card
Voter Card
Name of applicant in Voter List.
Pan Card
Driving License
Passport
Electricity bill/ Water bill
Documents of House and land
Copy of LIC Policy
Registered Rent Deed of House
Permanent resident certificate of Haryana


Aadhaar Card
Other Documents Saving Bank account detail of the applicant with a photocopy of the passbook.

Fees for the Service
Govt. Charges is Rs. 0, Service Charges is Rs. 10, Atal Seva Kendra Service Charges is Rs. 30. The RTS Time limit is 60 Days.
Haryana Old Age Pension Scheme 2020 Registration Form
All the candidates who wants to apply for the Budhapa Pension can fill the Application Form. To download the Haryana Old Age Pension Scheme 2018 Registration Form, candidates can follow the steps given below:-

Visit the official website of Social Justice Department socialjusticehry.gov.in
At homepage, click at “Forms” tab present in the main menu or directly click this link
Direct Link to Download Application Form for Old Age Samman Allowance PDF – Click Here
The Haryana Old Age Pension Scheme 2020 Application Form will appear as follows:-
Haryana Old Age Pension Scheme 2020 Application Form
All the candidates will have to fill the application form and then submit the completed application form to Social Welfare Officer in District / Taluka in Haryana.

All the approved applicants will start receiving the pension amount. These applicants can check their Pension Status and name in the Old Age Pension Beneficiary Details subject to the Eligibility Criteria. This scheme will enable all the citizens above the age of 60 years to get Rs. 2000 per month as pension.
Haryana Budhapa Pension Status / Track Old Age Pension Beneficiary Details
Candidates can now check the Budhapa Pension Status and also Track Old Age Pension Beneficiary Details as follows:-

Visit the same official website socialjusticehry.gov.in
At homepage, click at “आधार/पैंशन आई.डी./खाता संख्या से पैंशन विवरण देखें” or directly click this link
Then a new window with “लाभार्थी के पेंशन विवरण देखें / Track Beneficiary Pension Details” heading will open. Representative Image is shown in the figure:-
Track Haryana Budhapa Pension Status
Here candidates can Track Old Age Pension Beneficiaries Details through पेंशन आईडी / Pension ID, खाता संख्या / Account Number (with IFSC Code) or आधार संख्या / Aadhaar Number. In all of these cases, candidates have to enter the “Security Code”.
Finally candidates can click at “विवरण देखें / View Details” button to display the Budhapa Pension Beneficiary Status.

Registered beneficiaries can also check their Name in Old Age Pension Scheme Beneficiary List 2020. 
Haryana Old Age Pension Scheme Beneficiary List 2020
Registered pensioners can check whether their name appears in Varishtha Pension Scheme 2020 Beneficiaries List or not. People can now Check Haryana Old Age Pension Scheme Beneficiaries List Online as follows:-

Visit the official website socialjusticehry.gov.in
At homepage, click at “लाभार्थियों की सूची देखें / View List of Beneficiaries” link or directly click this link
In the new window, Haryana Old Age Pension Scheme List of Beneficiaries 2020 will appear as follows:-
Haryana Old Age Pension Scheme Beneficiary List
Here candidates can enter जिला / District, क्षेत्र / Area, खण्ड / नगरपालिका / Block / Municipality, गाँव / वार्ड / सेक्टर / Village / Ward / Sector, पैंशन का नाम / Pension Type, छांटने का क्रम / Sort Order and click at “लाभार्थी सूची देखें / View Beneficiary List”.
Afterwards, Candidates Name, ID, Aadhaar Number, Pension Amount will get displayed on the screen.
Finally, candidates can hit “Ctrl+F” to find their name in the List of Beneficiaries.

For more details, candidates can visit the official website http://socialjusticehry.gov.in/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://www.socialjusticehry.gov.in/en-us/
SAVE AS PDF
