
Haryana govt. has taken a decision of interest repayment on bank loans of women Self Help Groups (SHGs) set up under Deen Dayal Antyodya Yojana. All the interest repayment amount will be borne by the state govt. till the annual income of each member of that group reaches to Rs. 1 lakh per annum. Moreover, govt. will also give awards to 3 SHGs securing 1st, 2nd and 3rd positions with cash award of Rs. 1 lakh, Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 25,000 on the basis of their annual income.
This decision comes into force from today onward. CM has made this announcement on a state level function of Aajeevika Evam Kaushal Vikas Diwas conducted by Haryana State Rural Livelihood Mission. 
This scheme is a part of the nation wide Gram Swaraj Yojana which was launched across the country a few days back for the holistic development of villages.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Interest Repayment / Subsidy for Women SHGs in Haryana
The important features and highlights of this decision are as follows:-

All the women SHGs set up under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana (DAY-NRLM) can now avail interest intervention on bank loans.
The interest amount on the loan will be borne entirely by the state govt. However, the pre-condition is that the interest subsidy is only applicable till the time the income of each member of that specific group reaches Rs. 1 lakh p.a.
In case the income of each member of Women Self Help Group is more than Rs. 1 lakh, then this decision is not applicable.
Haryana govt. will also select 3 best SHGs on the basis of their annual income. SHGs securing 1st position will get cash reward of Rs. 1 lakh, 2nd position will get Rs. 50,000 and 3rd position will get Rs. 25,000.
The primary objective is to make people realize the importance of skill development for securing a good job rather than just focusing on the ways to obtain a degree.
This scheme will play an important role in the welfare of the rural women as well as the systematic development of villages. There are around 15,000 women SHGs in the entire state and the state govt. wants all of them to become entrepreneurs.
This scheme will help lakhs of families as most of these families are already working with SHGs. 
Haryana Women SHGs DAY-NRLM
Also the Gram Swaraj Abhiyaan which was launched earlier in the state on Dr B R Ambedkar birth anniversary (14 April 2018) is now completed. In this campaign, people were made aware of the various schemes being run by the central and the state govt. for the welfare of the poor people. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});






(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
