
The state govt. of Haryana is going to provide incentives to consumers for installation of Solar Home Systems under Manohar Jyoti Yojana. This scheme is to promote renewable energy and now the govt. will provide Rs. 15,000 subsidy to those consumers who installs solar home system.
Manohar Jyoti Yojana was started in FY 2017 in which state govt. targets to setup 1 lakh solar lighting systems. The solar home systems would be equipped with lithium battery which does not require maintenance & has long life.
The new system will be made available on subsidy to consumers of the state so that the citizens may not face any inconvenience related to power and lights in their houses.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Solar Home System under Manohar Jyoti Yojana
Haryana state govt. will provide incentives and Rs. 15,000 subsidy for Solar Home System installation. It is the priority of the state govt. to ensure uninterrupted power supply in each and every household of the state. So this system will enable uninterrupted power and light supply to the citizens.
This system would be able to run a ceiling fan and 3 LED lights. Apart from this, solar home system would also possess a mobile charging port. Under Manohar Jyoti Yojana, which was launched by the government last year, the state govt. has kept a target to setup 1 lakh solar lighting systems in the state.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

This time lithium battery would be installed as it does not requires maintenance. Solar Home System have comparatively longer life as compared to the previous versions of this system. To know more about Solar Home System Installation and Incentives, visit the official press release website of Haryana government.
Previously in FY 2017, the Renewable Energy dept. has issued new guidelines to install solar rooftop projects in the state. These new guidelines apply to all rooftop solar projects with capacities ranging from 1 KW to 500 KW. Moreover in these new guidelines, rooftop solar systems for residential, institutional and solar sectors are eligible for central financial assistance (CFA).
In July 2018, Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) has signed MoU with Haryana state distribution companies (DISCOMs) to install 1 million smart meters across the state. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
