
हरियाणा श्रमिक विभाग की औजार (टूल किट) खरीदने हेतु उपदान योजना 2019 ऑनलाइन पंजीकरण / आवेदन पत्र आधिकारिक वेबसाइट hrylabour.gov.in पर उपलब्ध हैं, पंजीकृत श्रमिकों को औज़ार खरीदने के लिए 8 हज़ार रुपये की वित्तीय सहायता, जानिये पात्रता और आवेदन की शर्तें

Table of Contents

Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Tool Kit Purchase Scheme 2019Haryana Labour Department Tool Kit Purchase Scheme Form OnlineLabour Welfare Board Haryana Tool Kit Purchase Scheme ConditionsAuzaar (Tool Kit) Kharidne Hetu Updaan Eligibility
Labour Department of Haryana is inviting online application forms for a new tool kit purchase scheme for labourers. Under Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Tool Kit Purchase Scheme 2019, all the registered laborers will get assistance of Rs. 8,000 for purchasing working tools (auzaar). Each labor needs to fill the Labour Welfare Board Tool Kit Purchase Scheme online registration form at the official website hrylabour.gov.in
The main objective of Haryana Labour Board Tool Kit Purchase Scheme is to assist labourers in their work life. The assistance amount of Rs. 8 thousand will enable them to work properly and lead a life of dignity and honour.
All the unorganized sector workers can now apply online for Haryana Labour Welfare Tool Kit Purchase Scheme and fill Haryana Labour Toolkit Purchase Scheme online registration / application form.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Tool Kit Purchase Scheme 2019
Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Tool Kit Purchase Scheme 2019 aims to provide financial assistance of Rs. 8,000 to the registered labourers. This tool kit purchase scheme has the main motto to create the best environment for the registered workers. The assistance under औजार (टूल किट) खरीदने हेतु उपदान scheme is given once in every 3 years.
Haryana Labour Department Tool Kit Purchase Scheme Form Online
All the candidates can firstly visit the official website at hrylabour.gov.in. At the homepage, go to the “E-Services” section and make registration using Aadhaar card. Then make a login at the homepage of the official Labour dept. website and fill the Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Tool Kit Purchase Scheme online registration form.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

To read the complete Tool Kit Purchase Scheme details, click at the link – Haryana Labour Tool Kit Purchase Scheme
Labour Welfare Board Haryana Tool Kit Purchase Scheme Conditions
The candidates must follow the conditions given below to avail the assistance under Labour Welfare Board Haryana Tool Kit Purchase Scheme:-

The worker must be registered with at-least 1 year of membership / subscription.
All the registered labourers must possess an identity card in which registration fees and subscription amount is mentioned.
Moreover, there must be a certified and completed identity certification in which subscription amount is mentioned, is to be attached.

Auzaar (Tool Kit) Kharidne Hetu Updaan Eligibility
All the candidates must fulfill the eligibility criteria as mentioned in the table below:-


Eligibility Criteria / पात्रता


Membership Years / सदस्यता वर्ष
1


Apply Frequency / आवेदन की सीमा
1


Scheme For / इस योजना के लिए 
All


Continue After Death / मृत्यु के बाद जारी
No


Building and Construction Workers (BOCW) can take this scheme benefits to get assisted in their work.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: hrylabour.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
