
हरियाणा वोटर लिस्ट 2020 (PDF) अब सीईओ की आधिकारिक वेबसाइट ceoharyana.nic.in पर उपलब्ध है, नयी मतदाता सूची में अपना नाम अपनी जानकारी या EPIC नंबर के आधार पर खोजें और वोटर ID कार्ड डाउनलोड करें

Table of Contents

Haryana Voter List 2020 Download with Photo @ ceoharyana.nic.inHaryana Voter ID Card Download – Check Name Online in Voters ListFind Name in CEO Voter’s List Haryana by Voter DetailsHaryana Voter List 2020 Name Search by Voter ID Card
Haryana Voter List Download | Haryana Voter List 2020 Download with Photo | Voter ID Card Download Haryana | Check Your Name in Voters List Haryana | CEO Voters List PDF Electoral Rolls | Name Search in Haryana Voters List by Voter Details | Check Name in Haryana CEO Voters List by Voter ID Card
Chief Electoral Officer has published the Haryana CEO Voter List 2020 with photo online. Here people can perform name search online in the New PDF Electoral Rolls (by voter details & voter ID) and download Voter ID Card at ceoharyana.nic.in (ceoharyana.gov.in). Election Commission of India (ECI) has announced the election dates for general Legislative Assembly elections in Haryana. In the state, voting for 90 vidhan sabha seats was held in 1 Phase i.e on 21 October 2019. 
All the citizens can check their name in the district wise CEO Voter List Haryana 2020 with Photo and download Voter ID Card. The updated Voter List PDF Haryana Electoral Rolls with Photo are available @ ceoharyana.gov.in (earlier ceoharyana.nic.in). Now people can find their name in the New Voter List 2020 Haryana (final electoral rolls) and can make Voter ID Card Haryana Download before casting their vote on 21 October for Vidhan Sabha elections 2020.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The entire PDF file of the Haryana Electoral Roll (Voters List) 2020 is now available. Here citizens can perform manual searching in the downloaded Haryana Voter List with Photo. Moreover, people can adopt a hassle free process and check their names online.
Haryana Voter List 2020 Download with Photo @ ceoharyana.nic.in
Below is the complete procedure to download Haryana CEO Voter List with Photo:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Firstly visit the official website of CEO Haryana at ceoharyana.nic.in
At the homepage, click the “Final Electoral Roll 2020” link under ‘I Want To know’ section of the page or directly click this link
Afterwards, the Final Roll page i.e CEO Voter List 2020 download page will appear as shown below:-
Haryana CEO Voter List Download Photo
Here candidates can select the name of district, assembly constituency, polling station, enter the captcha and click at “Get Final Roll” button. Now candidates can click at the “download PDF” link to download the complete Electoral Roll.
Haryana Voter List 2020 Download with Photo

All the candidates can find name manually in the downloaded CEO Haryana Voters List with photo to caste their important vote in Assembly elections. 
Haryana Voter ID Card Download – Check Name Online in Voters List
To check name online in the CEO Voter List Haryana and download Voter ID Card, follow the steps given below:-

Visit the same official website at http://ceoharyana.nic.in/
At the homepage, click at the “Check Your Name in Voter List” tab.
Afterwards, the candidates can check their name in Voter’s List (Electoral Roll) as shown below:-
Check Your Name in Voter List Haryana
People can either make ‘Search by Voter Details’ or ‘Search by Voter ID’.

Find Name in CEO Voter’s List Haryana by Voter Details
Now all the candidates can find name in Haryana CEO Voter’s List by Voter Details through the link:-> Check Your Name in Voters List Haryana by Voter Details
Voter List 2020 Haryana Name Find
All the candidates will have to enter the district, name, assembly constituency name, relation name, age, gender and then click at “Search” button to find name online in Voter List Haryana.
Haryana Voter List 2020 Name Search by Voter ID Card
All the candidates can perform name search in Haryana Voter List 2020 by Voter ID Card:-
Check Name Voter List ID Card
Here candidates can enter the Voter ID Card number or EPIC number and then click at the “Search” button to find name online and download the Haryana Voter ID Card. For more details, visit the same official website at http://ceoharyana.nic.in/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: ceoharyana.nic.in
SAVE AS PDF
