


Table of Contents

Benefits of Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima YojanaEligibility Criteria of PMSBY HaryanaEnrollment Period for PMSBYTermination of Cover under PMSBY
Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, a flagship accidental insurance scheme of central government has been launched by the state government of Haryana to provided accidental insurance cover to all citizens of Haryana. Under PMSBY Haryana, the government will provide an insurance amount upto Rs. 2 lakh each insured candidate in case of accidental death, and disability (complete/half loss of eye-sight or loss of both hands/feet) due to an accident.
Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana is one of the most affordable insurance schemes launched by the prime minister to provide  insurance cover to all the citizens of India at very low premium. Besides this, two more such kind of schemes are running across the nation named as Atal Pension Yojana and Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana.
Benefits of Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana
An insurance cover of Rs. 2 lakh will be given to the person in case of accidental death.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

In case of complete loss of eye-sight of both eyes or loss of both hands/feet due to the accident, the scheme will provide an insurance amount of Rs. 2 lakh.
If the person loses his eye-sight of one eye or loses one hand/feet in the accident, an insurance cover of Rs. 1 lakh will be provided under the PMSBY scheme.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

To get the above insurance covers, the applicants will have to pay the annual premium of Rs. 12 only.
Eligibility Criteria of PMSBY Haryana

To be eligible for the scheme, the applicant will have to fulfill the following eligibility of the insurance scheme.
The applicant should be an adult (18+ Years) to get the insurance cover under the scheme.
The maximum age to get the insurance cover in the scheme is 70 years (nearest birthday).
The applicant must have a saving bank account linked with his/her Aadhaar Card. Aadhaar is a primary KYC for the bank account and insurance coverage.

Enrollment Period for PMSBY
The premium of Rs. 12 will be deducted from the account holder’s savings bank account through ‘auto-debit’ facility on or before 1st June each year for the coverage of one year. And the government will deposit the insurance cover to the beneficiary’s account through the direct credit policy.
The insurance coverage would be for one year period stretching from 1 June to 31 May.
Consent form to join, pay, auto-debit from the designated savings bank account on the prescribed forms will be required to be given by the beneficiary by May 31 of every year.
Termination of Cover under PMSBY
The insurance cover of PMSBY will be terminated if

The beneficiary attains the age of 70 years.
Closing of bank beneficiary’s bank account due to insufficient balance.
In case, the beneficiary is covered through more than one of his/her accounts.






(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
