
Haryana government has decided to launch Atal Bihari Vajpayee Shramik Avagaman Yojana 2020. Under this scheme, the construction workers will be able to travel free of cost between their homes and places of work in state transport (Haryana Roadways) buses. The state govt. of Haryana will provide Free Bus Passes to all the construction labourers. Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala has announced to roll out Construction Labour Free Bus Pass Scheme soon. 
Primarily, construction workers belongs to poor category and their wages are not so high. From their daily wages, they are only able to bear their home expenses. But for going to work, they have to pay money in bus to travel to their work place. Now the state govt. will provide them with free Haryana Roadways bus passes and they will not have to pay any amount for bus travel from their pocket.
The decision to implement Haryana Roadways Free Bus Pass Scheme for Construction Workers is taken in the 19th meeting of the Haryana Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (BOCW). 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana BOCW Atal Bihari Vajpayee Shramik Avagaman Yojana 2020
In the modern day world where all sections of society are progressing, Haryana govt. took a major step to ensure that poor also prospers. A chunk of poor people who are working as construction labourers will now get relief in travelling. Each of the construction worker can now avail Free Bus Pass Scheme benefits while going to work. The free bus passes would be provided under Haryana Atal Bihari Vajpayee Shramik Avagaman Yojana 2020. 
Haryana Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala said that govt. will provide bus passes, the cost of which would be borne by the state government. Construction workers would be able to commute between their residences and work places in state transport buses absolutely free of cost. He has made this announcement while chairing the 19th meeting of The Haryana Building and Others Construction Workers Welfare Board in Gurugram.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

It was decided in the meeting that the scheme will be named “Atal Bihari Vajpayee Shramik Avagaman Yojana”. The cost of the workers travel in the public transport (Haryana Roadways buses) will be taken care of by the Board. Dy CM even instructed the officials of the Labour Department to outline modalities in consultation with Transport Department officials. 
Dy. CM also directed Women and Child Development Department officials to run a campaign to spread awareness about sanitary napkins and hygiene among women workers. He directed the labour department officials to explore possibilities of installing Sanitary Napkin Dispensing Machines for women workers.
From now onward, Haryana government will give Rs. 1,01,000 in two installments for the marriages of labourers daughters. The 1st installment will be of Rs. 50,000 amount to be released before the wedding while 2nd installment of Rs. 51,000 will be given after the marriage ceremony.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://www.outlookindia.com/newsscroll/haryana-construction-workers-to-avail-free-travel-in-state-buses/1710257
SAVE AS PDF
