


Table of Contents

Haryana Udyog Mitra Application Form OnlineWho Are Eligible for Udyog Mitra Scheme in HaryanaBenefits of Training Partners Empanelment in Udyog Mitra SchemeHaryana Udyog Mitra Scheme AdvertisementHaryana Udyog Mitra Scheme Document Download for Training Partners Empanelment
Haryana government is inviting online applications for empanelment of training partners in Udyog Mitra Scheme. Now the state govt. wants to partner industries under Haryana Skill Development Mission (HSDM). All the interested industries can fill Udyog Mitra Scheme Training Partner Application Form online at hsdm.org.in. Training partners will have to implement NSQF aligned, apprenticeship aligned, and placement linked short term training programs in Haryana.
Haryana Skill Development Mission (HSDM) aims to empower youth to take part in the economic and holistic growth of country. Industries under category of Captive employer, Industry Association, Training Partners, Sector Skill Councils, Manpower or Staffing Companies can apply online. 
HSDM combines efforts of various state departments to achieve skill development target. Udyog Mitra is an innovative scheme to develop skilled resources for the industry in the industry itself. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Udyog Mitra Application Form Online
Below is the complete procedure to apply online for Udyog Mitra Scheme in Haryana:-

Firstly visit the official website at http://hsdm.org.in/
At the homepage, click at the “Udyog Mitra Application Form” link in ‘News & update’ section.
Direct Link – Haryana Udyog Mitra Apply Online Form
The Udyog Mitra Scheme online registration / application form will appear as follows:-
Haryana Udyog Mitra Application Form Online
Here applicants will have to enter all the details and submit the proposal to concerned authorities for approval.

Who Are Eligible for Udyog Mitra Scheme in Haryana
Here are the companies which are eligible for Udyog Mitra Scheme in Haryana:-
— Captive employers / Industries
— Industry Associations
— Training Partners
— Sector Skill Councils
— Manpower or Staffing Companies 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Benefits of Training Partners Empanelment in Udyog Mitra Scheme
The following are the key highlights of empanelment of training partners in Udyog Mitra Scheme in Haryana:-
— Resource Mobilization of Key Job Roles.
— Industry Incetivisation through monetary benefits
— Retention & Engagement
— Earn & Learn
CM Manohar Lal Khattar has officially announced the launch of Udyog Mitra Scheme on his twitter account:-

???????? ???? ???? ?????? ???? ?? ??????? ????? ?????????? ???? ?? ?? ?????????? ??? pic.twitter.com/pi7FpqvzxP
— CMO Haryana (@cmohry) September 14, 2019
  
Haryana Udyog Mitra Scheme Advertisement
This advertisement can be considered as a rolling empanelment process from October 2019. Application submission is going to be accepted between 5th and 14th of every month. The complete evaluation process will be carried out and empanelment results would be published within 30 working days.
Udyog Mitra Scheme Document, Application Form and Selection Criteria are available for downloading from “Tender Section at the official website at www.hsdm.org.in.
Haryana Udyog Mitra Scheme Advertisement
People can send their queries at [email protected] on before 20 September 2019. The pre-empanelment queries meeting for training partners of Udyog Mitra Scheme is scheduled on 23 September 2019 at 11.30am. Interested Industries/Institutions can submit the application dully filled along with all evidence of document at the address mentioned in the advertisement.
Haryana Udyog Mitra Scheme Document Download for Training Partners Empanelment
All the eligible entities can download the Udyog Mitra Scheme document for empanelment of training partners through the link given below:-
Haryana Udyog Mitra Scheme Document
In this Udyog Mitra Scheme Document, applicants can check details of partnership type, course curriculum, beneficiaries, training cost, boarding / lodging cost, state apprenticeship, empanelment of partners, approval process for udyog mitra etc.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: http://hsdm.org.in/
SAVE AS PDF
