
हरियाणा श्रमिक विभाग की बच्चों की शादी पर वित्तीय सहायता (सुपुत्री) योजना 2019 ऑनलाइन पंजीकरण / आवेदन पत्र, पंजीकृत श्रमिकों के बच्चों की शादी के लिए 50,000 रुपये, जानिये पात्रता और आवेदन की शर्तें आधिकारिक वेबसाइट hrylabour.gov.in पर

Table of Contents

Haryana Labour Welfare Board Marriage Assistance Scheme Form 20191. Labour Welfare Board Marriage Assistance Scheme Online Registration in Haryana2. Conditions to Avail Labour Welfare Board Marriage Assistance Scheme3. Baccho Ki Shadi Par Vittiya Sahayata Yojana Haryana Eligibility Criteria
Labour department of Haryana has launched Marriage Assistance Scheme [बच्चों की शादी पर वित्तीय सहायता (सुपुत्री)] for girls of registered labourers. Haryana Labour Welfare Board will provide financial assistance of Rs. 50,000 to daughters of laborers before 3 days of marriage (शादी के तीन दिन पूर्व). People can now fill Haryana Labour Welfare Board Marriage Assistance Scheme Form at the official website at hrylabour.gov.in. 
This assistance under Baccho Ki Shadi Par Vittiya Sahayata Yojana would be provided in addition to the financial aid of Rs. 51,000 under Kanyadan Yojna in Haryana. The financial assistance under Haryana Labour Welfare Board Marriage Assistance Scheme is given to the laborers upto marriage of 3 daughters in a single family.
So, any registered unorganized sector workers (BOCW) can get total assistance of Rs. 1,01,000 on the marriage of their daughters. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Labour Welfare Board Marriage Assistance Scheme Form 2019
Haryana Labour Welfare Board Marriage Assistance Scheme 2019 aims to provide financial assistance of Rs. 50,000 to registered labourers on their daughter’s marriage. 
1. Labour Welfare Board Marriage Assistance Scheme Online Registration in Haryana
All the candidates can firstly visit the official website at hrylabour.gov.in. At the homepage, go to the “E-Services” section and make registration using Aadhaar card. Then make a login at the homepage of the official Labour dept. website and fill the Haryana Labour Welfare Board Marriage Assistance Scheme online registration form.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

To read the complete scheme details, click at the link – Haryana Labour Welfare Board Marriage Assistance Scheme 2019
2. Conditions to Avail Labour Welfare Board Marriage Assistance Scheme
People can follow the below mentioned conditions to avail financial aid under Labour Welfare Board Marriage Assistance Scheme in Haryana:-

All the labourers must be registered with at-least 1 year membership / subscription.
The complete details including application form number with identity certificate copy containing date of submission of application form must be produced.
Marriage registration certificate is an essential document.
All the candidates must also produce a self declaration certificate that he / she has will not get any assistance from any other govt. dept. / board / nigam.

Also Read – Haryana Mukhyamantri Mahila Shramik Samman Yojana
3. Baccho Ki Shadi Par Vittiya Sahayata Yojana Haryana Eligibility Criteria
All the candidates must fulfill the eligibility criteria as mentioned in the table below to avail assistance under Baccho Ki Shadi Par Vittiya Sahayata Yojana in Haryana:-


Eligibility Criteria


Membership Years / सदस्यता वर्ष
1 year


Apply Frequency / आवेदन की सीमा
upto 3 daughters


Scheme For / इस योजना के लिए
All


Continue After Death / मृत्यु के बाद जारी
No


All the registered labourers can now get Rs. 50,000 under Labour Welfare Board Marriage Assistance Scheme (बच्चों की शादी पर वित्तीय सहायता (सुपुत्री)) + Rs. 51,000 under Kanyadan Yojna (कन्यादान योजना) = 1,01,000/-.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: hrylabour.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
