
Haryana govt. is going to launch Tele-Medicine Treatment Scheme on a pilot basis in primary health services for all patients. Under this scheme, all the serious patients can avail best possible treatment from specialist doctors at their nearby health centers. This treatment will be available for patients through e-sanjeevani software. This scheme will provide equal and high quality health treatment to patients from poor and deprived sections. 
Best treatment of a particular disease will now remain available through tele-medicine facility at nearest health centers. This facility will save time and money of patients and also of doctors. Specialists doctors from far-flung areas can now provide assistance in treatment.
Tele-Medicine Facility will ensure “Health For All” objective of the state govt. and will mostly benefit the poor and economically weaker patients.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Tele-Medicine Treatment Scheme in Haryana
Tele Medicine Facility will be provided to the patients at 3 levels / phases. The descriptions of 3 levels are as follows:-

First Level – All PHCs and CHCs will get linked to health and wellness centers.

In this First Phase of Tele-Medicine Scheme, Primary Health Centers (PHCs) and Community Health Centers (CHCs) will get connected to Health and Wellness Centers (HWCs) through E-Sanjeevani Software.
Health providers at this level will conduct routine clinical examinations, checkups, radiological and laboratory investigations.
This would be possible with the help of an integrated health device linked with the e-sanjeevani software.
Electronic medical records will firstly get screened at the PHC and CHC level.


Second Level – In this second phase, all PHCs and CHCs will get connected to the district hospitals.

In case consultation of specialist doctor is required, then medical records of the patients will be referred to district hospitals through telemed software.
This will ensure secondary and tertiary level health care to the patients.


Third Level – In the third phase, all the district hospitals will be connected with the Medical Colleges. In case of urgency, medical records can be referred to secondary and tertiary level care units.

In addition to this, Haryana govt. is also going to establish a regional resource center and tele-medicine hub at PGIMER.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});






(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
