
हरियाणा श्रमिक विभाग की मातृत्व लाभ योजना 2019 ऑनलाइन पंजीकरण / आवेदन पत्र, पंजीकृत महिला श्रमिकों को बच्चों के जन्म पर 36,000 रुपये की वित्तीय सहायता, जानिये पात्रता और आवेदन की शर्तें आधिकारिक वेबसाइट hrylabour.gov.in पर

Table of Contents

Haryana Maternity Benefit Scheme 2019 for Labourers1. Labour Welfare Fund Maternity Benefit Scheme Online Registration in Haryana2. Conditions to Avail Maternity Benefit Scheme Haryana Labor3. Eligibility Criteria for Haryana Labour Board Maternity Benefit Scheme
Labour Department of Haryana has launched Maternity Benefit Scheme 2019 for women workers. Now all the building and construction laborers particularly women will get assistance of Rs. 36,000 on the birth of children. All the registered labourers who are pregnant can now apply online and fill Haryana Maternity Benefit Scheme online registration form at hrylabour.gov.in.
In this Labour welfare fund scheme for pregnant women, Rs. 30,000 is given as Matritva labh and Rs. 6,000 for proper nutrition after birth of children. The major objective is to provide proper nutrition to the mother and children as both of them can shape the future of the country. Moreover, the living standards and health status of the workers will get improved.
This Matritva Labh Scheme is going to reduce the maternal mortality rate (MMR) and infant mortality rate (IMR). 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Maternity Benefit Scheme 2019 for Labourers
Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Maternity Benefit Scheme 2019 aims to provide financial assistance of Rs. 36,000 to the registered labourers on the birth of children.
1. Labour Welfare Fund Maternity Benefit Scheme Online Registration in Haryana
All the candidates can firstly visit the official website at hrylabour.gov.in. At the homepage, go to the “E-Services” section and make registration using Aadhaar card. Then make a login at the homepage of the official Labour dept. website and fill the Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Maternity Benefit Scheme online registration form.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

To read the complete scheme details, click at the link – Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Maternity Benefit Scheme 2019
2. Conditions to Avail Maternity Benefit Scheme Haryana Labor
People can follow the below mentioned conditions to avail financial aid under Labour Welfare Board Maternity Benefit Scheme in Haryana:-

All the women labourers must be registered with at-least 1 year membership / subscription.
After the birth of the children, candidates must produce birth certificate (certified copy) must be attached.
Matritva Labh is given upto 2 children but in case the children are girls, then this maternity benefit can be availed for upto 3 daughters.
Completed application forms along with other documents must be submitted to the concerned authorities within 1 year of delivery.
All those registered women labourers whose husband is taking paternity benefits from any board / dept. / corporation are not eligible.

3. Eligibility Criteria for Haryana Labour Board Maternity Benefit Scheme
All the candidates must fulfill the eligibility criteria as mentioned in the table below to avail the Haryana Labour Board Maternity Benefit Scheme:-


Eligibility Criteria


Membership Years / सदस्यता वर्ष
at-least 1 year


Apply Frequency / आवेदन की सीमा
upto 5


Scheme For / इस योजना के लिए
Female


Continue After Death / मृत्यु के बाद जारी
No


The total assistance under maternity benefit scheme of Haryana labour is Rs. 36,000.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: hrylabour.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
