
हरियाणा के मुख्यमंत्री श्री मनोहर लाल खट्टर ने परिवार पहचान पत्र पोर्टल का शुभारम्भ कर दिया है, अब परिवार के मुखिया को भरना होगा ऑनलाइन आवेदन फॉर्म (संपूर्ण परिवार की जानकारी के साथ) या उसे अटल सेवा केंद्र या अंत्योदय सेवा केंद्र पर जमा करना होगा

Table of Contents

Haryana Parivar Pehchan PatraParivar Pehchan Patra – Update Family DetailsApply Online for Parivar Pehchan PatraHaryana Parivar Pehchan Patra Application Form PDF DownloadHow to Apply for Parivar Pehchan PatraFeatures of Haryana Parivar Pehchan PatraParivar Pehchan Patra (Family ID Card) Scheme – HighlightsWhat is Parivar Pehchan Patra or Family ID CardParivar Pehchan Patra PortalHaryana Parivar Pehchan Patra – FAQ’s
meraparivar.haryana.gov.in Update Family Details | Haryana Pehchan Patra Update Family Details | Haryana Pehchan Patra Add New Member
Haryana Government has launched the Parivar Pehchan Patra (परिवार पहचान पत्र) Portal (meraparivar.haryana.gov.in) to provide unique identity to each family in the state. This portal will facilitate the offering of benefits of Haryana government schemes in a transparent and easy manner to people by using technology. Now all the people can apply online for Parivar Pehchan Patra (Family ID Card) in Haryana through this portal to get identity certificate.
The newly launched Parivar Pehchan Patra in Haryana would have the name of the head of family at the top. The name of other family members would be added in this identity certificate right after their birth.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

On marriage of girls, her name would be transferred to Parivar Pehchan Patra of her in-laws. Three services namely disability pension scheme, old age samman allowance and widow pension scheme have been integrated on the Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP) portal.
Haryana Parivar Pehchan Patra
To get Parivar Pehchan Patra (unique identity certificate) in Haryana, the head of the family will have to deposit a form. This Parivar Pehchan Patra Apply online form must contain the full details of the family with signature of head of family.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

All the completed forms must be submitted at Atal Sewa Kendra or Antyodaya Sewa Kendra or Common Service centers, Tehsil Office.
Parivar Pehchan Patra – Update Family Details
You can also update the family details after you have received the Family ID card through the official portal at meraparivar.haryana.gov.in. Below is the complete procedure to update the family member details.
STEP 1: Go to the official Portal at meraparivar.haryana.gov.in.
STEP 2: Click on the Update Family Details Link or directly click here.
Update Family Details Link
STEP 3: In the next step, select “YES” if you have your 14 digit Family ID else select “NO” to enter your Aadhar number and proceed to next step.
Select YES or NO
Enter Family ID
Search With Aadhar
STEP 4: After your Aadhar / Family ID verification, you will be able to update the family details of Parivar Pehchan Patra.
The detailed procedure of updating the family details on Haryana Parivar Pehchan Patra Portal is given in the below PDF.
How to Update Family Details: https://meraparivar.haryana.gov.in/UM.pdf
Apply Online for Parivar Pehchan Patra
Though, the state government has launched the portal for online registration of Parivar Pehchan Patra but there is no procedure / link available for online application by the general public.
However, the applications by the general public for Parivar Pehchan Patra can be submitted at the Common Service Centers, Saral Kenrda and Tehsil Offices and then the operator will register the family on the portal. The operator will fill all the details of the family on the Parivar Pehchan Patra Portal and provide a unique Family ID after the successful registration / approval and verification.
The Family ID cards will be issued within few days after the successful registration.
At this portal, people can check how to apply online for disability, widow and old age pension schemes. Accordingly, operators at CSCs can then fill pension schemes application form online.
Haryana Parivar Pehchan Patra Application Form PDF Download
The application form of Haryana Parivar Pehchan Patra can also be downloaded in PDF format using the link given below.
Haryana Parivar Pehchan Patra Application Form
Download Parivar Pehchan Patra Form PDF: Download Now
How to Apply for Parivar Pehchan Patra
In order to apply for Haryana Parivar Pehchan Patra, follow the simple procedure given below.
To apply for Haryana Parivar Pehchan Patra, you will have to visit the any of the SDM office, Nearby Gas Agency, Block Office or Ration center and submit the dully filled application form.You can download the application form from the above given above and get its printout or obtain the new form hard-copy from the same center.Fill all the required information such as name, contact details, family member details, address, Aadhar number etc and submit the form at the same office.After the successful registration, you will be allotted a Unique 14 Digit Family ID and a smart card will will help in applying for the various government schemes of Haryana Govt.
Features of Haryana Parivar Pehchan Patra
Through the Parivar Pehchan Patra Scheme, the state government would be able to digitize the records of Haryana state resident families and keep track of them.About 56 Families residing in the state would be covered under the scheme. Out of those about 46 Lakh families are already covered in SECC-2011 list while the rest would be registered as new families.The scheme will help in increasing the transparency of government schemes, help reduce the corruption and eliminate the rising problem of duplicate Aadhar cards in the state.Family ID card has become mandatory for all government employees of the state, hence they will have to apply for the ID as soon as possible.
Parivar Pehchan Patra (Family ID Card) Scheme – Highlights
Below are some of the highlights of Haryana Family ID Card scheme
Name of SchemeParivar Pehchan Patra (परिवार पहचान पत्र)StateHaryanaLaunched ByChief Minister Shri Manohar Lal KhattarObjectiveTo bring in transparency to government services and keep track of Haryana State dwellersBeneficiariesAbout 56 Lakh families of HaryanaApplication FormDownload Application FormApplication ModeOfflineOfficial Portalmeraparivar.haryana.gov.inScheme Last DateNo Last DateDocuments RequiredAadhar CardParivar Pehchan Patra (परिवार पहचान पत्र) Highlights
What is Parivar Pehchan Patra or Family ID Card
The family ID Card or Parivar Pehchan Patra which will be given to each registered family would contain a unique Family ID along with few other details such as the name of head of the family.
The Family ID Card could be used to avail benefits of verious Haryana government welfare schemes such as Disability Pension Scheme, Old Age Samman Allowance, Widow & Destitute Women Pension Scheme among few others.
Parivar Pehchan Patra Portal
Parivar Pehchan Patra Portal (meraparivar.haryana.gov.in) is going to speed up the operation of 100% success in Mera Parivar – Meri Pehchan programme. Migrant families can upload their information on this portal after leaving the place so that their previous information could be removed.
There would be 3 digits for the village and 5 digits for family in Parivar Pehchan Patra. No individual digit will be there for the citizen. With this step, Haryana govt. is moving forward towards ensuring transparency in identifying the family and its uplift, mapping and providing benefits.
मुख्यमंत्री श्री @mlkhattar ने परिवार पहचान पत्र पोर्टल का शुभारंभ किया pic.twitter.com/Gu2BPGyjp4— CMO Haryana (@cmohry) July 26, 2019

हरियाणा में रहने वाले प्रत्येक परिवार को अब अलग से मिलेगा पहचान पत्र pic.twitter.com/oU6BdDr6di— CMO Haryana (@cmohry) April 28, 2020

Integration of Social Security Pension Schemes
CM Manohar Lal Khattar said that now the 3 social security pension schemes have been integrated at the official Parivar Pehchan Patra Portal. These schemes are Old Age Samman Allowance, Disability Pension Scheme and Widow pension scheme.
हरियाणा सरकार ने वृद्धावस्था सम्मान भत्ता (पेंशन) योजना, दिव्यांग पेंशन योजना और विधवा व निराश्रित महिला पेंशन योजना को परिवार पहचान पत्र पोर्टल के साथ एकीकरण किया है।इन योजनाओं को पीपीपी के साथ जोड़ने से लाभार्थियों को पेंशन जारी करने हेतु परिवार का विवरण आसानी से उपलब्ध होगा pic.twitter.com/jrwD26VRx0— CMO Haryana (@cmohry) June 25, 2020
Furthermore, the data of district wise families will be available to the Department, which other departments will be able to use for their preparing welfare schemes.
The state govt. of Haryana is working at war footing basis on making the Parivar Pehchan patra. This identity certificate would ensure automatic delivery of various citizen – centric services to people and will also curb corruption. Moreover, with the creation of database of all families, the benefits of social welfare schemes will reach the actual beneficiaries automatically and remove duplicity.
Haryana Parivar Pehchan Patra – FAQ’s



✔️ What is Haryana Parivar Pehchan Patra
Parivar Pehchan Patra or Family ID Card is a unique identification card containing 14 Digit number for each resident family of Haryana.



✔️ What is the Parivar Pehchan Patra portal
Parivar Pehchan Patra portal can be accessed at meraparivar.haryana.gov.in



✔️ How to Apply for Parivar Pehchan Patra
In Order to apply for Parivar Pehchan Patra, download the application form and submit this at Saral Centers / Block Office or Tehsil along with required documents.



✔️ How to Update Family Member Details of Parivar Pehchan Patra
You can update the family member details of Parivar Pehchan Patra at the official portal at meraparivar.haryana.gov.in



✔️ What is the benefit of Parivar Pehchan Patra
This Parivar Pehchan Patra will help in easy application for various government schemes and services



✔️ What is the last date of application
There is no last date of application for this scheme




Official Website – meraparivar.haryana.gov.in





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chandigarh/cm-launches-parivar-pehchan-patra-project-in-haryana/articleshow/70387276.cms
SAVE AS PDF
