
हरियाणा श्रमिक विभाग की कन्यादान योजना 2019, पंजीकृत श्रमिकों की लड़कियों की शादी के लिए 51,000 रुपये का कन्या दान, जानिये पात्रता और आवेदन की शर्तें आधिकारिक वेबसाइट hrylabour.gov.in पर

Table of Contents

Haryana Labour Kanyadan Yojna 2019 for Daughter’s MarriageHow to Get Benefits of Kanyadaan Yojana in HaryanaHaryana Kanyadan Yojana Eligibility Criteria
Labour Department has launched Kanyadan Yojna (कन्यादान योजना) in Haryana to provide assistance to labourers on the occasion of their daughter’s marriage. Under Kanyadaan Scheme, all the registered laborers will get financial aid of Rs. 51,000 before 3 days of girl’s marriage. Check the eligibility criteria and procedure on how to apply online at the official website hrylabour.gov.in 
This amount is given by the labor department for the marriage of upto 3 daughters of a single family. The labourers can avail this aid as Kanyadaan before 3 days only for their daughter’s marriage not on their son’s marriage. This amount is in addition to the Rs. 50,000 assistance under Haryana Labour Welfare Board Marriage Assistance Scheme. 
Moreover, the marriage must be registered under the Marriage Registration Act. In addition to this, both the bride and bridegroom must also have attained the legal age of marriage. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Labour Kanyadan Yojna 2019 for Daughter’s Marriage
Kanyadaan Yojana in Haryana is being implemented by the Labour Department in which govt. provides assistance of Rs. 51,000 on marriage of daughter’s of labourers. The official website of Kanyadan Yojna in Haryana is hrylabour.gov.in from where people will get complete information. 
To know complete details, candidates can go to the “BOCW Welfare Schemes” section and then click at the “कन्यादान योजना (विवाह से तीन दिन पूर्व)(धारा 22(1)(h))” or directly click the link – Kanyadan Yojna in Haryana. Under this Kanyadaan Yojana, all the registered laborers will get this amount before 3 days of their girls marriage.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

How to Get Benefits of Kanyadaan Yojana in Haryana
All the candidates can avail benefits of Kanyadaan Yojana in Haryana by following the certain conditions:- 

Laborer must be registered and must have minimum one year of membership.
The marriage card and application form must be certified from any gazetted officer.
The age proof of bride and bridegroom (self attested copy) must be attached. For bride, the minimum age of marriage is 18 years while the minimum age of marriage of bridegroom is 21 years.
Moreover, the marriage registration certificate must be produced within 1 year of marriage.

Applicant must also make self declaration that people will not avail any further assistance from any other board/ dept./ corporation.
Also Read – Haryana Mukhyamantri Mahila Shramik Samman Yojana
Haryana Kanyadan Yojana Eligibility Criteria
The candidates must follow the given eligibility criteria to become eligible for Kanyadan Yojana in Haryana:-


Eligibility / पात्रता


Membership Years / सदस्यता वर्ष
1 years


Apply Frequency / आवेदन की सीमा
3 daughters


Scheme For / इस योजना के लिए
All


Continue After Death / मृत्यु के बाद जारी
Yes


People will get benefits of Rs. 51,000 before 3 days of their daughter’s marriage.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: hrylabour.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
