
Haryana govt. has launched Mukhyamantri Kisan Khet Sadak Marg Yojana to strengthen all small passage in villages. Under this scheme, all the roads would be made of Khadanja in the next 5 years in a phased manner. Farmers land will be inter-connected with the rural and urban areas which will provide them a market to sell their agriculture produce.
CM has also announced that the registration of cultivable land of the farmers, giving details of crop sown and area under cultivation would be done twice in a single year. This 2 times registration process for cultivable land is going to assist the farmers from sowing of their crop till the sale of their agricultural produce in the market.
This is a major decision to realize the PM Modi’s vision of “Doubling Farmers Income by 2022”. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Mukhya Mantri Kisan Khet Sadak Marg Yojana
Haryana CM has announced this scheme to strengthen the roads for rural inter connectivity. Rural Development Department would carry out the work under the Mukhya Mantri Kisan Khet Sadak Marg Yojana. Under the 1st phase of the scheme, 25 kilometers passage of 3 and 4 karam in villages from each constituency would be carried out. All the roads are going to be made from Khadanja in the upcoming 5 years in a phase wise manner. 
The state govt. has also decided to perform the registration of farmer’s cultivable land twice in 1 year. The farmers could give details like name of crop sown and area under cultivation at the common service centers (CSCs) established at the village level. This scheme would help farmers in procurement, compensation, insurance and bank loans. Department of Agriculture and Farmer’s Welfare would check the registration of land and village patvari would verify it. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The registration of farmers land would be done in both cases whether cultivated or non-cultivated. Haryana is an agarian state where farmer’s income needs to be increased as compared to other groups of the society. So, the state govt. has fixed a target of at-least Rs. 1 lakh per acre earnings through crop diversification and adopting use of scientific and modern technology. 

"मुख्यमंत्री किसान खेत सड़क मार्ग योजना" के तहत प्रत्येक विधानसभा क्षेत्र के 500 किलोमीटर तक 3 व 4 करम के रास्तों को चरणबद्ध तरीके से पक्का किया जाएगा। pic.twitter.com/71PE04NlXf
— CMO Haryana (@cmohry) December 11, 2018

Govt. will also prepare a mechanism of financial management for farmers such that they can utilize funds for enhancing productivity. Agriculture is a business so there must be a system of direct marketing to minimize the expenditure of farmers and enhancing their income. There is also a need to encourage farmers to shift from traditional farming to vegetable, fruits, flower and medicinal plants.
The state govt. will also provide special focus on the concept of peri-urban farming for around 4 crore population of Delhi and nearby areas like Faridabad, Noida, Gurugram. This includes supply of essential commodities like milk, fruits, flowers and eggs to raise income of farmers.
The state govt. has taken various initiatives like Agri Leadership Summit, Cattle fairs, Kisan Ratan Awards which have not been taken earlier. The state govt. is making consistent efforts to double the income of the farmers, reducing the cost of production and use of bio-fertilizers.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
