
Haryana government has launched Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Durghatna Sahayata Yojana. Subsequently, govt. will provide an insurance cover of Rs. 1 lakh in case of accidental death and disability. Accordingly, this “Accident Insurance Scheme” will provide financial assistance to the people in case of fatal accidents.
This accidental insurance is absolutely free of cost. Henceforth, eligible beneficiaries will not have to pay any insurance premium or consideration of any type.
Durghatna Sahayata Yojana is going to cover all the residents of Haryana who are not enrolled /eligible for Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY).



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Durghatna Sahayata Yojana – Details
The important features and highlights of accidental insurance scheme are as follows:-
This accidental insurance scheme will provide an insurance coverage of Rs. 1 lakh in case of accidental death and disability.Subsequently, there is no premium or consideration for all eligible beneficiaries of Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Durghatna Sahayata Yojana 2020.All the Hayana domicile / residents who are not eligible to take benefits of Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana due to non-enrollment or otherwise can apply for this scheme.Moreover, all the people in the age group of 18 to 70 years can avail the benefits of this scheme provide person must not have enrolled for PMSBY.Furthermore, people must apply for claim before 6 months of death or 12 months from date of accident.
Durghatna Sahayata Bima Yojana Haryana
Previously, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) provides an insurance cover of Rs. 2 lakh as assistance for accident with premium amount of Rs. 12. Accordingly, those people who are unable to pay the annual premium or not enrolled in that scheme can avail the benefits of this scheme. However, the compensation / assistance amount is reduced to Rs. 1 lakh under Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Durghatna Sahayata Yojana.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Moreover, all the claims made after 6 months of death or 12 months from accident date (whichever is earlier) will not get entertained. This scheme will ensure social security of the families whose family members die due to accident.
In addition to this, people who have applied for this scheme cant make claim for this insurance in case of natural death. To avail the benefits of Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Durghatna Sahayata Yojana, the family of the victims can apply for financial assistance at the office of District Social Welfare officer.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
