
Haryana state government is going to launch Bhavantar Bharpai Yojana for farmers to cover the price deficit of crops. Subsequently, this scheme will ensure that the base price (minimum support price) is fixed for vegetables. Accordingly, govt. will provide compensation (bharpai) to the farmers if they sell their vegetables below the fixed base price. Haryana govt. start implementing this government scheme from 1 January 2018. 
In the initial phase, govt. is going to fix minimum support price for 4 crops – Potato, Onion, Tomato, Cauliflower. The primary objective of this scheme is to ensure that the farmers must not face the distress sale of their produce. Moreover, govt. will fix the base price equivalent to the cultivation cost.
Latest Update – Haryana govt. has decided to provide compensation to farmers in case price of tomato falls below Rs. 4 and price of onion falls below Rs. 5 during the Kharif season. Accordingly, MSP for Tomato is fixed at Rs. 4 and for Onion is Rs. 5. Moreover, govt. will also cover two other horticulture crops – potato and cauliflower during rabi season. Henceforth, the state govt. will authenticate the cultivable area under these crops from 15 February 2018.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

They will get the Bhavantar (Bhav + Antar) which means Price Deficit. Henceforth, govt. will launch this scheme for doubling the income of the farmers by 2022.
Bhavantar Bharpai Yojana
The important features and highlights of this scheme are as follows:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Haryana govt. will launch this scheme to ensure that the farmers must get fair price for their vegetables produce.
For this reason, govt. will fix the base price equivalent to the cultivation cost.
Moreover, the state govt. emphasizes on diversification of crops. In addition to this, farmers will get access to the Delhi and National Capital Region (NCR) markets to sell their fruits, vegetables and flowers.
Govt. is also planning to adopt peri-urban agriculture for farming purposes.
This type of farming will enable the farmers to earn more money as compared to the traditional farming.
Accordingly, farmers will not have to sell their products at a lower price than the minimum support price. If they have to, then govt. will provide compensation (bharpai) equivalent to the deficit (antar) in the price (bhav).
Furthermore, farmers should produce need based crops in adjoining areas as the agricultural products are likely to decay in a short span of time.

Bhavantar Bharpai Yojana Online Application Procedure
To avail the benefits of this scheme, farmers will have to make registration on the Farmer Facility Portal. The complete procedure to apply online has been specified below:-

Firstly visit the official website agriharyana.in
Subsequently on the homepage, click the “Register Farmer” tab present on the right side of the page.
Afterwards, the Farmer Registration Form will appear as shown below:-
Bhavantar Bharpai Yojana Farmer Registration Form
Here candidates have to fill all the necessary details accurately which includes farmer details, bank details,
land details etc.
Finally farmers have to click the “Save” button to complete the Registration process.
Furthermore, farmers of Haryana can take a printout of the complete application form and keep it for future reference.

Haryana govt. will lay special emphasis to bring 25% of total cultivable area under horticulture. For this reason, state govt. will setup an International Vegetable and Fruit market having an area of around 500 acres at Gannaur, Sonepat. In addition to this, govt. will also start a flower market at Gurugram to boost horticulture farming.
Under the Isro-Israel project, state govt. has established Center of Excellence for various fruits and vegetables. Moreover, govt. will soon start other similar projects to raise the milk production. This Bhavantar Bharpai Yojana will improve the condition of farmers in the entire state through providing them money as per their labour. Furthermore, this scheme will raise the living standard of farmers and give opportunities to earn their livelihood. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
