
Haryana government is soon going to launch a new Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav Portal which signifies My Village My Pride. This portal will enable industrialists and corporates from Haryana origin to enhance their corporate social responsibility (CSR) contribution in their ancestral villages. The state govt. is going to carry out development works worth Rs. 1000 crore in villages. 
This call was made by the CM Manohar Lal Khattar at Haryana CSR Summit 2018 where he also launches Haryana CSR portal www.haryanacsr.org showing list of district-wise and sector-wise development projects to be carried out in the state.
Various leading companies are committed for the contribution of over Rs. 177 crore under CSR in the key areas of sanitation, rural development, education, skill development, environment, health and women empowerment. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Mera Goan Mera Gaurav (My Village My Pride) Portal
The Rural Development Department is going to launch Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav portal to raise CSR contribution from corporate houses as sense of service rather then obligation. This portal will connect the people with their villages and various developmental works would be listed on the website that could be taken up by the industrial houses and corporates.
At Haryana CSR Summit 2018 organized on 12 November, CM urges the industrial and corporate houses to raise their CSR contribution from 2 per cent to 5 per cent of their profits and partner the state govt. in speedy execution of various CSR projects. At present, the annual contribution under CSR in the state is Rs. 350 crore and target has been fixed to increase it to Rs. 1000 crore. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

At CSR Summit 2018 in Haryana, chief minister also honoured corporates, public enterprises and deputy commissioners for outstanding contribution in CSR space in Haryana through Haryana CSR Awards 2018.

हरियाणा में CSR के फंड से एक हजार करोड़ के जनहितकारी कार्यों को अंजाम दिया जाएगा। हमारी सरकार जल्द ही 'मेरा गांव- मेरा गौरव' नाम का पोर्टल भी लांच करने जा रही है जिसके तहत हरियाणा मूल के उद्योग व साधन संपन्न व्यक्ति अपने पैतृक गाँव में CSR के तहत विकास कार्यों में सहयोग कर सकेंगे pic.twitter.com/HtiK855tik
— Vipul Goel (@VipulGoelBJP) November 13, 2018


उद्योग जगत के लोगों से अपने लाभ का C.S.R. में 2% से 5% तक योगदान देने का मुख्यमंत्री ने किया आह्नान। pic.twitter.com/LBUwQiqdUc
— CMO Haryana (@cmohry) November 13, 2018

CM Khattar has also expressed grief over the sad demise of Union Fertilizer and Chemicals and Parliamentary Affairs Minister, Sh. Anananth Kumar who was suffering from cancer and his demise is a huge loss to the nation. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
