
Haryana Government has notified Affordable Plotted Housing Policy 2016 for Low and Medium Potential Towns, the policy will be named as Deen Dayal Jan Awas Yojana. This policy is intended to encourage the development of high density plotted colonies in Low and Medium Potential towns of the State wherein small plots are made available through a liberal policy framework.
Features of Deen Dayal Jan Awas Yojana or Affordable Plotted Housing Policy 2016

Under the Deen Dayal Jan Awas Yojana, all the projects are required to be completed within 7 years from the date of approval of license.
In any residential sector not more than 30% of the net planned area under residential zone, inclusive of the 20% area limit allowed for group housing projects, can be allowed for projects under this policy. However, if a residential sector has an area of less than 50 acres, one such project shall be allowed upto 15 acres.
65% of the licensed area is the maximum allowed area under residential and commercial plots.
The minimum and maximum net planned area for such projects shall be 5 acres and 15 acres respectively irrespective of the Development Plan where such project is proposed. Not more than 10% of the licensed area should fall under sector roads.
Area under commercial use should not exceed 4% of the licensed area.
Minimum width of the roads in the colony should be 9 meters.
The first licence may be obtained for an area of 5 acres or more and additional license for minimum 2 acres can be obtained to take the aggregated area of colony upto 15 acres.
Minimum 7.5% of the licensed area should be kept as organized open space.
Registration of independent floors in plots shall be allowed.
Clubbing of residential plots for approval of integrated zoning plan of two adjoining plots under same ownership shall not be permitted in the colonies approved under the present policy.
Grant of licence shall be considered under this policy, initially, against 20% group housing area limit in such sector. Once the area under 20% limit stands exhausted on account of either group housing licences or affordable housing policy 2013 projects or under the present policy; grant of any further license under this policy shall be considered only upto a further limit of 10% of the net planned area under residential zone of such sector.

Under the Deen Dayal Jan Awas Yojana, max allowed area of the plot would be 150 Sq.Mt.. The minimum and maximum density per acre is 240 and 400 people respectively.
The detailed document of Deen Dayal Jan Awas Yojana can be found here.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

 




(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
