
हरियाणा श्रमिक विभाग की मुख्यमंत्री महिला श्रमिक सम्मान योजना 2019 ऑनलाइन पंजीकरण / आवेदन पत्र, पंजीकृत औरत श्रमिकों के लिए 5100 रुपये, जानिये पात्रता और आवेदन की शर्तें आधिकारिक वेबसाइट hrylabour.gov.in पर

Table of Contents

Haryana Mukhyamantri Mahila Shramik Samman Yojana 20191. Mahila Shramik Samman Yojana Online Registration in Haryana2. Conditions for Mukhyamantri Mahila Shramik Samman Yojana Haryana3. Haryana CM Women Labourers Welfare Scheme Eligibility
Labour Department of Haryana govt. has launched Mukhyamantri Mahila Shramik Samman Yojana 2019. Under this scheme, all the registered building and other construction workers particularly women will get financial assistance of Rs. 51,00. To avail this aid for purchase of useful items, fill Haryana Mukhyamantri Mahila Shramik Samman Yojana online registration form at hrylabour.gov.in
The main purpose of launching this women welfare scheme is to give workers better facilities to buy their needful things. All the women labourers will get this assistance every year at the time of renewal of their membership / subscription. Only the registered women laborers under the Labour dept. of Haryana can take the Mukhyamantri Mahila Shramik Samman Yojana scheme benefits.
The main objective of women labour welfare scheme is to provide financial assistance to the unorganized registered workers. Moreover, women workers will get better facilities in the state.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Mukhyamantri Mahila Shramik Samman Yojana 2019
Haryana Mukhyamantri Mahila Shramik Samman Yojana 2019 aims to provide financial assistance of Rs. 5100 to registered women labourers. At the time of renewal of their membership, this assistance would be given. Women laborers can purchase saree, suit, slippers, shoes, rubber mattresses, utensils for domestic use and even their sanitary napkins with this aid of Rs. 5,100. 
1. Mahila Shramik Samman Yojana Online Registration in Haryana
All the candidates can firstly visit the official website at hrylabour.gov.in. At the homepage, go to the “E-Services” section and make registration using Aadhaar card. Then make a login at the homepage of the official Labour dept. website and fill the Mukhyamantri Mahila Shramik Samman Yojana online registration form. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

To read the complete scheme details, click at the link – Haryana Mukhyamantri Mahila Shramik Samman Yojana 2019
2. Conditions for Mukhyamantri Mahila Shramik Samman Yojana Haryana
All the candidates can avail the assistance under Mukhyamantri Mahila Samman Yojana in Haryana in the following conditions:-

All the registered women labourers must be a member for at-least 1 year.
On the identity card of the registered laborers, the registration fees and contribution amount must be mentioned.
Registered women labour will get this assistance at the time of renewal of their membership / subscription.

3. Haryana CM Women Labourers Welfare Scheme Eligibility
All the candidates must fulfill the following eligibility criteria to become eligible for CM Mahila Shramik Samman Yojana in Haryana:- 


Eligibility / पात्रता


Membership Years / सदस्यता वर्ष
1 year


Apply Frequency / आवेदन की सीमा
at-least 1 year


Scheme For / इस योजना के लिए
Female


Continue After Death / मृत्यु के बाद जारी
No


For more details, people can contact the Haryana Labour Welfare Board : 0172-2560226, Bays No. 29-30 (Pocket-II), Sector-04, Panchkula (Haryana) -134112 or can contact toll free number: 1800-180-2129.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: hrylabour.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
