
हरियाणा श्रमिक विभाग की अक्षम बच्चों को वित्तीय सहायता योजना 2019 ऑनलाइन पंजीकरण / आवेदन पत्र आधिकारिक वेबसाइट hrylabour.gov.in पर उपलब्ध हैं, पंजीकृत कामगारों के ऐसे बच्चे जो मेडिकल आॅथोरिटी द्वारा 50 प्रतिशत या इस से अधिक शारीरिक अथवा मानसिक रूप से अक्षम/अपंग घोषित हो, को प्रतिमाह 2,000/- रूपये की सहायता राशि दी जाती है, जानिये पात्रता और आवेदन की शर्तें

Table of Contents

Haryana Labour Assistance Scheme for Disabled Children of Labourers 2019Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Assistance Scheme for Disabled Children of Labourers Form OnlineHaryana Labour Welfare Board Assistance Scheme for Disabled Children of Labourers EligibilityHaryana Labour Department Assistance Scheme for Disabled Children of Labourers Conditions
Labour department of Haryana invites Assistance Scheme for Disabled Children of Labourers online application form at hrylabour.gov.in. Under this Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Assistance Scheme for Disabled Children of Labourers, labor dept. provides Rs. 2,000 per month to child of registered laborers suffering from physical, mental disability. People can now apply online, check conditions and eligibility criteria to avail Assistance Scheme for Disabled Children of Labourers in Haryana (अक्षम बच्चों को वित्तीय सहायता योजना).
All the disabled children of registered BOCW workers can avail this Rs. 2000 on being certified as 50% or more disabled by any medical authority. Haryana Labour Welfare Board Assisatance Scheme for Disabled Children of Labourers has the main objective to assist such children to lead a life of dignity and honour.
The children with disabilities of BOCW laborers can now apply online for Haryana Labour department Aksham Baccho Ko Vittiya Sahayata Yojana and fill online registration / application form.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Labour Assistance Scheme for Disabled Children of Labourers 2019
Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Assistance Scheme for Disabled Children of Labourers 2019 aims to provide Rs. 2,000 p.m to disabled children of registered labourers. This Aksham Baccho Ko Vittiya Sahayata Yojana by Haryana Labour Department will enable labourers to get assistance in the proper nourishment and providing facilities to children suffering from disabilities.
Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Assistance Scheme for Disabled Children of Labourers Form Online
All the candidates can firstly visit the official website at hrylabour.gov.in. At the homepage, go to the “E-Services” section and make registration using Aadhaar card. Then make a login at the homepage of the official Labour dept. website and fill the Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Assistance Scheme for Disabled Children of Labourers online registration form.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

To read the complete Aksham Baccho Ko Vittiya Sahayata Yojana details, click at the link – Haryana Labour Assistance Scheme for Disabled Children of Labourers.
Haryana Labour Welfare Board Assistance Scheme for Disabled Children of Labourers Eligibility
Under the अक्षम बच्चों को वित्तीय सहायता योजना of Haryana Labour Welfare Board, labour dept. provide Rs. 2,000 per month to disabled children of registered labourers who have 50% or more physical / mental disability. The eligibility criteria to avail assistance under Haryana Labour Assistance Scheme for Disabled Children of Labourers are as follows:-


Eligibility / पात्रता


Membership Years / सदस्यता वर्ष
1


Apply Frequency / आवेदन की सीमा
0


Scheme For / इस योजना के लिए
All


Continue After Death / मृत्यु के बाद जारी
Yes


Haryana Labour Department Assistance Scheme for Disabled Children of Labourers Conditions
People can follow the below mentioned conditions to avail financial aid under Labour Welfare Board Aksham Baccho Ko Vittiya Sahayata Yojana in Haryana:-

All the registered labourers must have minimum 1 years of membership / subscription.
In the identity certificate of the registered labourers, registration fees and subscription amount needs to be mentioned.
The children of registered labourers must be declared 50% or more physically / mentally disabled by any medical authority.

Along with the completed application form, Disability Certificate issued by medical authority must be attached.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: hrylabour.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
