
Haryana govt. has decided to make the Parivar Pehchan Patra of each and every family in the state. This family identity certificate will ensure that all the beneficiaries would be able to avail the benefits of citizen centric services. Moreover, this family identity certification will curb corruption and will ensure that no eligible beneficiary is left out from taking benefits of the state government run welfare schemes.
These Parivar Pehchan Patra will be prepared for single (nuclear) and joint (combined) families. CM has taken this decision in the meeting of the officials held on 1 January 2019. The state govt. has already prepared the database of more than 46 lakh (46,30,959) families on the basis of Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC) Data 2011. 
This database is uploaded on the e-district portal of Haryana at https://edisha.gov.in/. For each family, there would be 14 digit identity ID number.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Parivar Pehchan Patra (Family Identity Certificate)
After the updation of data of family on the basis of residence, death and birth, the state government is consistently working to update data of families on the basis of SECC-2011 data. Till date, there are around 54 lakh families in the state which would get included in the updated database. To apply for Parivar Pehchan Patra in Haryana, all the people needs to fill the application form and submit it to the concerned authorities. 
CM has instructed all the officials to keep a performa of Family Identity Certificate in their offices. The application forms for Parivar Pehchan Patra will remain available at all the SDM offices, tehsil & block offices, schools, ration depot, gas agencies and other offices which deals with the general public. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

This availability of Haryana Parivar Pehchan Patra application forms at public dealing offices would ensure that people who comes to these offices to take benefits of government schemes can update their family details. Moreover, the state govt. is also working to simplify the process of making of birth certificate, death certificate and marriage registration certificate.

अब हर परिवार का होगा पहचान पत्र; भ्रष्टाचार पर लगेगा अंकुश। pic.twitter.com/AdmUeawY5W
— CMO Haryana (@cmohry) January 2, 2019

The data would be used by the departments to give benefit of various welfare services to its actual beneficiary. This family identity certificate would also remove duplication as Aadhaar number and phone number of the beneficiary would also be updated in the ‘Parivar Pehchan Patra’ performa.
The information regarding various govt. schemes must reach the people. For instance, if a person reaches the age of 60 years, then he / she must information that they now becomes eligible for Old Age Pension Scheme in Haryana. Similarly if any youth attains the age of 18 years, then he / she must get information about he / she is eligible for voting. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
