
Haryana Government is going to implement Scheme for Adolescent Girls (SAG) in all districts of the state. This scheme will facilitate education and empowerment of out of schools adolescent girls belonging to the age group of 11-14 years. Gvot. will implement this scheme through Anganwadi Centers under the umbrella of Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) to fully replace Kishori Shakti Yojana (KSY). Earlier, SAG was named as Rajiv Gandhi Scheme for Empowerment of Adolescent Girls (RGSEAG) – SABLA.
Intitially, SABLA was implemented in 6 districts namely Ambala, Yamunanagar, Rohtak, Rewari, Kaithal and Hisar on a pilot basis. Now, the state govt. has decided to expand the coverage and scope to all districts.
All the District Programme Officers (DPOs) will conduct the baseline survey, identify the beneficiaries and then submit their report to give exact report for getting funds from Union Ministry of Women and Child Development. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Scheme For Adolescent Girls (SAG)
The important features and highlights of SABLA Scheme are as follows:- 

This primary objective of this scheme is to educate and empower the out of school girls to become self reliant and to generate awareness.
Special emphasis will be given for providing Self Employment Opportunities along with improvement in their nutrition and health status.
This scheme also includes promotion of awareness about aspects of health and nutrition. Govt. will also provide supplementary nutrition to these girls.
Govt. will support “Out of School Adolescent Girls” to transition back to formal school education. Moreover, these girls will be entitled to avail skill development training for upgradation of their home-based skills, life skills and create awareness on socio-legal issues.
Adolescent Girls will receive all the necessary info. on various existing public services like Primary Health Centers (PHCs), Community Health Centres (CHCs), Post Office, Bank and Police Stations.
All the school girls in the age group of 11 to 14 years are eligible for this scheme.

Scheme For Adolescent Girls (SAG) will be implemented under Integrated Child Development Services through Anganwadi Centers (AWCs).


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Components of SAG – Scheme For Adolescent Girls
This scheme now has 2 components – Nutrition and Non-Nutrition whose description is given below:-

Nutrition Component:

All the adolescent girls registered under this scheme will get supplementary nutrition as given to the pregnant women and lactating mothers under ICDS.
This scheme will ensure that each girls must get nutritious food of 600 calories, 18-20 grams of protein and micro-nutrients for minimum 300 days in an year.
Govt. will also provide the facility of Take Home Ration (THR) or Hot Cooked Meals (HCM) as feasible.
For hot Cooked Meals, all the quality standards will be taken into consideration. Govt. will spend Rs. 9.5 per beneficiary per day for around 300 days in one year.
Central govt. and Haryana govt. will bear the cost of supplementary nutrition in 50:50 ratio.


Non-Nutrition Component:

This component will focus on motivating the out of school girls of 11 to 14 years of age to get back to education. Moreover, the state govt. will also motivate them to either get back to formal schooling or get skill training.
In addition, govt. will also provide these girls with Iron–Folic Acid (IFA) supplementation, regular health check-ups, referral services, nutrition and health education, life skill education, counseling / guidance to access public services
Govt. will provide an amount of Rs. 1.1 lakh / project to concerned departments to successfully implement this scheme.
ICDS Monitoring Committee will monitor and review the progress of scheme. These committees are also responsible to suggest suitable mechanisms to improve the implementation process.



Haryana govt. has taken into account the physical, physiological and health needs of the adolescent girls while designing services. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
