
हरियाणा श्रमिक विभाग की विधवा पेंशन योजना 2019 ऑनलाइन पंजीकरण / आवेदन पत्र आधिकारिक वेबसाइट hrylabour.gov.in पर उपलब्ध हैं, पंजीकृत विधवा श्रमिकों को 2 हज़ार रुपये प्रति माह की वित्तीय सहायता, जानिये पात्रता और आवेदन की शर्तें

Table of Contents

Haryana Labour Vidhwa Pension Scheme 2019Haryana Labour Department Vidhwa Pension Yojana Form OnlineLabour Welfare Board Haryana Widow Pension Scheme EligibilityWidow Labor Pension Scheme Haryana – Non Eligibility Conditions
Labour department of Haryana is inviting online application form for Vidhwa Pension Scheme. Under this Haryana Widow Pension Scheme, each of the registered widow laborers will get Rs. 2,000 assistance per month. All the working widow labourers in the unorganized sector can apply online for Widow Pension Scheme at the official labour dept. portal at hrylabour.gov.in and fill Haryana Labour Welfare Board Vidhwa Pension Scheme online registration form.
The main objective of Haryana Labour Widow Pension Scheme is to assist women labourers in their life after death of their husband. The assistance amount of Rs. 2 thousand will enable them to lead a life of dignity and honour.
All the unorganized sector workers can now apply online for Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Vidhwa Pension Scheme and fill Haryana Labour Widow Pension Scheme online registration / application form.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Labour Vidhwa Pension Scheme 2019
Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Vidhwa Pension Scheme 2019 aims to provide financial assistance of Rs. 2,000 per month to the registered labourers. This widow pension scheme has the main motto to create the best environment for the registered workers.
Haryana Labour Department Vidhwa Pension Yojana Form Online
All the candidates can firstly visit the official website at hrylabour.gov.in. At the homepage, go to the “E-Services” section and make registration using Aadhaar card. Then make a login at the homepage of the official Labour dept. website and fill the Haryana Labour Welfare Fund Vidhwa Pension Yojana online registration form.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

To read the complete Widow Pension Scheme details, click at the link – Haryana Labour Vidhwa Pension Yojana
Labour Welfare Board Haryana Widow Pension Scheme Eligibility
Under the widow pension scheme of Haryana Labour Welfare Board, welfare fund provides Rs. 2,000 per month as assistance to vidhwa women. Labour Welfare Fund Haryana Widow Pension Scheme 2019 is available for all registered women workers of the Haryana state whose husband had died and has not done re-marriage. The terms and conditions to avail Haryana Labour Vidhwa Pension Yojana are as follows:- 


Eligibility / पात्रता


Membership Years / सदस्यता वर्ष
1


Apply Frequency / आवेदन की सीमा
1


Scheme For / इस योजना के लिए
All


Continue After Death / मृत्यु के बाद जारी
No


Widow Labor Pension Scheme Haryana – Non Eligibility Conditions
Widow Labor Pension Scheme benefits in Haryana could not be availed in the following conditions:- 

In case the widow assistance is prearranged through haryana govt. / board / corporation or PSUs.
In case of re-marriage of Widow
For those widow who are already availing assistance through any other govt. / department / corporation / PSU.
In case the widow is not residing in Haryana state.

Haryana Labour Board Widow Pension Scheme will provide Rs. 2,000 per month to widows to enable them to lead a life of dignity and honour.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: hrylabour.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
