
हरियाणा सरकार मुफ्त लैपटॉप योजना की शुरुवात करने जा रही है, इसके लिए ऑनलाइन आवेदन फॉर्म आधिकारिक वेबसाइट पर भरे जाएंगे, अपना नाम फ्री लैपटॉप स्कीम की लाभार्थी सूची में देखें, सरकारी स्कूल के छात्र जिनके दसवीं कक्षा में 90 प्रतिशत से ज्यादा अंक हैं वो इसके पात्र होंगे

Table of Contents

Haryana Free Laptop Scheme List of BeneficiariesHaryana Free Laptop Distribution Scheme Apply Online FormHaryana Muft Laptop Yojana Implementation
Haryana government is going to start Free Laptop Scheme 2019 for government school students. Under this free laptop distribution scheme, govt. will give muft laptops to those who have scored more than 90% marks in Class 10 state board examinations. All the beneficiaries whose name appears in the Haryana Free Laptop Yojana Beneficiary List will have to apply online to avail benefits.
All the government schools across the entire Haryana state have been asked to prepare list of beneficiaries for Free Laptop Scheme. The Muft Laptop Yojana beneficiary list will contain name of toppers who appeared for state board exams in March 2019. 
In this Haryana Muft Laptop Yojana, around 500 meritorious students will get free laptops.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Free Laptop Scheme List of Beneficiaries
Education Department of Haryana will divide students into five categories to prepare Free Laptop Scheme Beneficiary List:-

First 100 toppers (without caste, gender or income limit) of 10th state board examinations.
Top 100 girls in general category.
Top 100 boys from scheduled caste (SC) category.
Top 100 girls belonging to scheduled caste (SC) category.
Top 100 students from Below Poverty Line (BPL) category.

All the govt. schools have received a letter from Haryana govt. informing them about the Free Laptop Scheme. Those students who have passed their board exams this year would be awarded laptops which will help them to prepare themselves for higher education. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Haryana Free Laptop Distribution Scheme Apply Online Form
Just like laptop distribution schemes of other states like Karnataka, the state govt. of Haryana may invite online application forms for Muft Laptop Yojana. All the interested and eligible meritorious students will then have to apply online. For filling Free Laptop Distribution Scheme online application form, govt. may launch a new dedicated portal. The start and last dates for registration of Free Laptop Scheme in Haryana are still not finalized. As soon as the new guidelines are issued for application / registration, we will update it here.
Haryana Muft Laptop Yojana Implementation
Education Department of Haryana will also prepare list of BPL students. The state govt. will distribute free laptops to students – both boys and girls – of economically weaker sections of all communities whose annual family income falls below Rs. 2.5 lakh. The dept. will verify records of these students and will prepare list of beneficiaries after verifying their family income and other admission records by end of this month.
Haryana govt. has issued circular to all government schools about the Free Laptop Distribution Scheme. Previously in July, Haryana govt. has issued notification to all districts about a similar scheme. However, that Free Laptop Scheme was not implemented as list was not prepared by a few districts. This Muft Laptop Yojana will encourage students to secure good marks in the board examinations. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/gurgaon/free-laptops-for-govt-school-students-who-scored-90-in-class-10-boards/articleshow/72356630.cms
SAVE AS PDF
