


Table of Contents

Parivartan Scheme – 10 Major IssuesParivartan Scheme – ParametersParivartan Scheme – Marks Distribution
Haryana government has launched Parivartan Scheme to address 10 major issues which includes cleanliness and pollution in 46 developmental blocks of the state. Under this scheme, govt. will provide training (practical) to the employees and thus will create strong training workforce in the state. This is a unique scheme in order to ensure that the benefit of all government scheme must reach the people. 
Haryana CM Manohar lal Khattar has launched this scheme along with 46 other IAS, IPS and IFS Cadre officials. The state govt. has allotted one block to each of these officers.
The state govt. will conduct review process of officer’s experience on Civil Service Day – 21 April 2018.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Parivartan Scheme – 10 Major Issues
Haryana govt. has developed this scheme in order to address 10 major issues which are as follows:-


Financing Facilitation
Making Agriculture Profitable and Suitable


Improvement of Health Services
Implementation of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan


Market Areas Decongestion
Youth Engagement


Air Pollution Monitoring and Control
Availability of Identity related services


Effective Policing
Ensuring Road Order and Conduct


Govt. will appoint 46 officers for 46 development blocks (1 for each block). These officers will carry forward the works in 10 selected common fields and 1 field of their choice.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Parivartan Scheme – Parameters
Under this scheme, the state govt. has specified various parameters which will serve as the basis of their performance assessment of which some are as follows:-

Making of 10 km long stretches absolutely accident free.
One Town / Block / Mahagram Stray Cattle Free.
Proper Delivery of Caste Certificates to Students.
Filing of Charge Sheets of all FIR’s in case of crime.

Under this scheme, around 3 lakh govt. employees and directed administrative secretaries will utilize their services. The primary objective is to make sure that the benefits of several welfare schemes and programmes reach the common people belonging to these 46 blocks (more than 1/3 rd of total area of Haryana). 
Parivartan Scheme – Marks Distribution
Haryana Govt. will provide score (out of 50) to each of these officers as per their developmental work in their blocks. Accordingly, the marks distribution is as follows:-


Performance on specified 38 parameters covering the above 10 fields
39 Marks


Any field of Officer’s Choice
4 Marks


Social Audit by Haryana Governance Reforms Authority (HGRA)
7 Marks


Moreover, the state govt. has issued directions to the secretaries to make personal visits to their allotted blocks. These officers must make at-least one visit and must apprise the block and district officers. Accordingly, this scheme will help in realizing the dream of the state govt. to provide good governance in Haryana. 
Haryana govt. is rolling out 1 reform per month under its flagship ‘Ek Aur Sudhar Programme’ after taking consultations from public. Under this program, the state govt. has also formed Ponds Management Authority and Kisan Kalyan Pradhikaran. Furthermore for next month, the state govt. is inviting suggestions on Antyodaya from public. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
