


Table of Contents

Mukhyamantri Kanya Vivah Yojana Form HaryanaMukhyamantri Vivah Shagun Yojana AmountMukhyamantri Vivah Shagun Yojana DocumentsHaryana Welfare Scheme Eligibility
Haryana government has launched Mukhyamantri Vivah Shagun Yojana to provide financial assistance to girls on their marriage. Under this scheme, girls from poor families and daughter of widow / destitute women, sports women and orphan kanya will receive financial assistance for marriage. All the girls can read the instructions for mukhya mantri vivah shagun scheme, fill kanya vivah yojana form and submit it with other documents to avail the amount through haryanawelfareschemes.org
This amount is given as “Kanyadaan” in order to honour the girl child and ensure that girls are married gracefully. All the applicants should fill haryana welfare scheme form before 1 month from the date of marriage.
All the applicants of this social welfare scheme will get this amount directly into their bank accounts. Candidates can apply for social welfare scheme even after their marriage but after 6 months of marriage, no grant will be given.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Mukhyamantri Kanya Vivah Yojana Form Haryana
Below is the complete procedure to fill Mukhyamantri Kanya Vivah Yojana Form:-

Firstly visit the official website haryanawelfareschemes.org
On the homepage, click the “User Registration” tab or directly click http://haryanawelfareschemes.org/registrationform.aspx
In the new window, select the name of scheme, enter new user id and ration card number and then click “Check Availability” option.
Afterwards, Mukhyamantri Kanya Vivah Yojana Registration Form will appear as follows:-
Mukhyamantri Vivah Shagun Yojana Registration Form Haryana
Here fill all the details and then click the “Submit” button. Now candidates will get a registration number which can be used for login to fill the remaining application form.
Mukhyamantri Kanya Vivah Yojana Application Form
Here fill all the details and submit the completed application form to avail mukhyamantri vivah shagun yojana amount.

For any query on filling haryana welfare scheme form, candidates can call on the helpline number 0172-2707009 or can send an e-mail to [email protected] 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Mukhyamantri Vivah Shagun Yojana Amount
The state govt. of haryana will provide financial assistance as per the following criteria:-


Category
Amount (in Rs.)
Receiving Duration


Daughters of Widow women (Income < Rs. 1 lakh)
Rs. 51,000
Rs. 46,000 before or on marriage and 5000 within 6 months after marriage on submission of marriage certificate.


SC / ST BPL families, widow / divorced / destitute women, orphan and destitute girls (Income < Rs. 1 lakh)
Rs. 41,000
Rs. 36,000 before or on marriage and 5000 within 6 months after marriage on submission of marriage certificate.


General Category BPL Families, General / OBC / SC / ST families (Non-BPL) having land holding less than 2.5 acres and Income less than Rs. 1 lakh p.a
Rs. 11,000
Rs. 10,000 before or on marriage and 1000 within 6 months after marriage on submission of marriage certificate.


Sports Woman (any caste or any income)
Rs. 31,000



For detailed notification on the mukhyamantri vivah shagun yojana amount, please see the link:-
http://haryanascbc.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/indira-gandhi-notifications.pdf 
Mukhyamantri Vivah Shagun Yojana Documents
Candidates must possess the following documents to avail the benefits of this social welfare scheme:-


List of Documents


Aadhaar Card
BPL Card


Permanent Resident Proof
Marriage Invitation Card


Caste Certificate (if applicable)
Groom’s Board Marksheets


Groom’s Age Proof
Bride Board Marksheets


Bride Age Proof
Bride’s Account Number, IFSC Code & Branch Name


Divorce Order in case of Divorcee women
Parent’s Income Certificate


Haryana Welfare Scheme Eligibility
All the applicants must fulfill the following eligibility criteria to become eligible to fill mukhyamantri kanya vivah shagun yojana form:-
— Applicant must be a resident of Haryana.
— Minimum age of the bride should be 18 years.
— Minimum age of the groom should be 21 years.
— In a family, mukhyamantri vivah shagun yojana amount can be given upto marriage of 2 daughters of a person.
— Any Widow or divorced women can also take this amount for her re-marriage (only if she had not taken it previously).
To see more details on procedure to fill Mukhyamantri Vivah Shagun Yojana 2018, please click the link – haryanascbc.gov.in





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
