
सीएम अशोक गेहलोत करेंगे नए उद्यमी को बढ़ावा देने के लिए राजस्थान उद्योग मित्र पोर्टल (rajudyogmitra.rajasthan.gov.in) की शुरुआत करेंगे, अब सभी नए उद्यमियों को इस पोर्टल पर पंजीकरण करवाने पर होंगे लाभRajasthan govt. has taken a pioneering initiative of MSME Ordinance 2019 to simplify the path for new enterprises. Now the fresh udyami mitra who wants to start their own business / startup can fill Raj Udyog Mitra application form. Rajasthan Udyog Mitra Portal Online Registration for new enterprises will start from 12 June 2019. CM Ashok Gehlot would launch the new rajudyogmitra.rajasthan.gov.in portal.
Department of Information & Public Relations (DIPR) of Rajasthan would manage this Udyog Mitra Portal. The main objective is to ensure that new business must flourish across the state which would also helpful in tackling unemployment.
Rajasthan Udyami Mitra initiative has been launched with a tagline “Sarkaar Ka Haath, Udyami Ke Saath”.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rajasthan Udyog Mitra Portal Online Registration for Udyami
Below is the complete procedure to make online registration at the new Rajasthan Udyami Mitra portal:-

Firstly visit the official MSME Ordinance 2019 portal at rajudyogmitra.rajasthan.gov.in
Rajasthan Msme Ordinance 2019 Portal-Udyami
At the homepage, click at the “Sign Up” tab in the menu to proceed for registration at the Rajasthan SSO ID Portal as shown below:-
Rajasthan Udyami Mitra Portal Registration
After making SSO ID registration, candidates can make login to apply online at Udyog Mitra Portal.

Direct Link – Raj Udyog Mitra Portal Registration
Direct Link – Rajasthan Udyog Mitra Portal Login
All the new micro, small or medium enterprise, whose date of commencement of commercial operation is proposed on or after the date of promulgation of the Ordinance i.e. 4 March 2019 can apply for exemptions under the Ordinance.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

At the official Raj Udyog Portal, candidates can also check the list of acts & rules issued by the state government. Moreover, candidates can validate / verify their acknowledgement certificate.
Rajasthan MSME Ordinance 2019 (Raj Udyog Mitra) Portal Benefits
Here are the benefits of making registration / login at the official Raj Udyog Mitra Portal:-

There is no prior approval required under any state law for establishment & operation of MSME.
All the new enterprises would get exemption from inspections under all state laws for 3 years.
There is now an easy application process and immediate acknowledgement certificate issuance.
Raj Udyog Mitra Portal New Enterprises

The exemptions from the renewal of approvals are not covered under the MSME Ordinance 2019. The exemptions under the Ordinance are applicable only on the new enterprise and that includes an enterprise set up or proposed to be set up by an existing enterprise for manufacturing products or providing services at a location which is separately identifiable and different from location of the existing enterprise.
For more details, visit the official website at https://rajudyogmitra.rajasthan.gov.in/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: rajudyogmitra.rajasthan.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
