
Rajasthan govt. has announced to extend the Mukhyamantri Shehri Jan Kalyan Yojana till 31 December 2018. Under this scheme, govt. will organize populist land and revenue related campaigns and regularize several illegal residential colonies. The state Govt. will launch Chief Minister Shahari Jan Kalyan Shivir to address matters related to ‘Pattas’ (records of ownership of land) and urban bodies.
Previously, CM Sahari Jan Kalyan Yojana was launched on 10 May 2017 in Jaipur district. This involves regularization of illegal colonies build on agricultural and civil land, recovery of lease arrears etc.
All the people belonging to economically weaker sections in urban areas will get benefited from this scheme.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rajasthan Mukhyamantri Shehri Jan Kalyan Yojana 2018
The important features and highlights of this CM Shahari Jan Kalyan Yojana are as follows:- 

Relaxation in Pattas granted under the Rahasthan Govt. Grant Act.
Allocation of sloping land and regularisation of increased areas of allocated or auctioned plots by urban bodies.
Approval of House Maps (Naksha) under Mukhyamantri Shehri Jan Kalyan Yojana 2018.
Regularization of houses build before 31 December 2015 of up to 90 sq.mt area which are constructed without any setback.
Reorganization of plots or sub-divisions and permission to construct new buildings.
Arrears of lease and urban development tax will be recovered by giving relaxation in interest.
Regulation of various schemes which are affected due to sealing act and custodian land.
Regularization of small houses and plots build on land acquired by PWD, water resources and urban development bodies.
Apart from this, free allocation of 50 square yards of land will also be given to the Lohar and Ghumantu castes under Mukhyamantri Shehri Jan Kalyan Yojana 2018
Rajasthan Mukhyamantri Shahari Jan Kalyan Yojana

Also, govt. will regularize all the houses / plots with area less than 60 sq.mt for Economically Weaker Sections (EWS), Lower Income Group (LIG) category people. Rules will be simplified for regularization of colonies which were constructed many years back. Al those people who have constructed houses on a 500 sq.m plot in urban areas, regularisation would be done free of cost.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

This information is taken from the official twitter handle of CM Office, GoR (@RajCMO).





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
