


Table of Contents

Rajasthan e-Sakhi Digital Training Online Registratione-Sakhi Digital Training Eligibility Criteriae-Sakhi Training Syllabus & Course Detailse-Sakhi Roles, Responsibility & Benefits
Rajasthan govt. has launched e-Sakhi Yojana to take digital literacy to next level. Under this scheme, the state govt. would provide free digital training to 1.5 lakh women citizens. Interested candidates can download the eSakhi Mobile Application and fill the application form through their mobile or esakhi.rajasthan.gov.in
This scheme will empower the women which in turn can provide knowledge to other women across the state. For this reason, govt. will enroll 1.5 lakh self volunteers as eSakhis who will further train at-least 100 women from their respective villages / urban areas to access digital services.
The primary objective of this eSakhi Programme is to make at-least 1 person from each rural family digitally literate. Govt. motive is to connect maximum number of citizens and this mission will be held between May 2018 to December 2018. e-Sakhi Mobile App is of 12 MB and is run by DoIT&C, GoR.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rajasthan e-Sakhi Digital Training Online Registration
To enroll the eSakhis, there will be an open competitive test. Below is the complete procedure to apply online for e-Sakhi Digital Training:-

People can directly download the eSakhi Mobile App from Google Play Store or can visit the official website esakhi.rajasthan.gov.in
Direct Link – People can directly download the e-Sakhi App through the link – eSakhi Mobile App Download
After downloading the Mobile App, click at the “ई-सखी बनिए” on the homepage. In the new window, People can make Login using the Rajasthan Single Sign On Identity (SSO ID). Representative image is shown in the figure:-
Rajasthan e-Sakhi Yojana Training Registration
In case the citizens does not possess any SSO ID, then candidates can click at the “साइन अप” tab to make SSO ID Registration.
Direct Link for SSO ID – To directly Sign Up for Single Sign On ID, people can click – Rajasthan SSO ID Online Registration
You can also register using your Bhamashah ID or Aadhaar Card or Facebook ID or Gmail ID.

For more details on the SSO ID, visit the official website https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/register


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

e-Sakhi Digital Training Eligibility Criteria
All the candidates must fulfill the following eligibility criteria to become eligible for e-Sakhi Digital Training Scheme:-

Age Limit – All the applicants must belong to the age group of 18 to 35 years.
Educational Qualification – Candidate must be at-least Class 12th Pass.
All the applicants must possess a valid Bhamashah ID.
Candidates must own a Smartphone.
Applicants must possess a valid E-Mail ID and they must possess passion / Interest for Social Activities.

This Digital Literacy Mission will bridge the digital divide between residents and govt. schemes and will ensure effective service delivery.
e-Sakhi Training Syllabus & Course Details
Candidates can see the entire syllabus and course details as mentioned in the table below:-


Syllabus


Bhamashah Yojana


Bhamashah Swasthya Bima Yojana / Health Insurance Scheme


Samajik Suraksha Pension Yojana / Social Security Scheme


e-Mitra Yojana


e-PDS Yojana / Public Distribution System


Raj Sampark Portal


Training Course Duration & Location


The entire training course duration for e-Sakhis will be 14 hours for 7 days i.e 2 hours per day.


Govt. will conduct this training at nearest ITGKs (IT Gyan Kendras) of RKCL (Rajasthan Knowledge Corporation Ltd.)


e-Sakhi Roles, Responsibility & Benefits
Govt. will train people on the usage of important services and IT application of state government. This scheme will ensure that every trained person can access digital services using his / her mobile or eMitra Kiosk. People can participate in govt’s IT initiatives. 
Benefits – This Digital Training is entirely free of cost and has a state wide recognition. Each eSakhi will get a training certificate and awards. Best volunteer will get a chance to interact with CM Vasundhara Raje on “Coffee with CM” program. For more details visit the official website esakhi.rajasthan.gov.in





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
