
Rajasthan govt. is going to launch Priyadarshini Indira Gandhi Mahila Shakti Yojana which is dedicated for women. Under this scheme, govt. will support women entrepreneurs, provide skill development training, education and rehabilitate women victims. The state govt. has allocated Rs. 1000 crore for IM Shakti (Indira Mahila Shakti) Yojana. Along with this scheme, govt. will also start Janta Clinic Scheme on 18 December 2019 in Jaipur. 
The state govt. of Rajasthan has decided to setup farmer welfare fund of Rs. 1,000 on 17 Dec 2019 on completion of CM Ashok Gehlot one year tenure in office. This decision was at state cabinet meeting chaired by the chief minister on 11 December 2019.
Various state level programmes would be launched in 3 days i.e from 17 to 19 Dec to benefit people of state. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rajasthan Priyadarshini Indira Gandhi Mahila Shakti Yojana
On 17 December 2019, govt. will start Run for Nirogi Rajasthan event. Following this initiative, there would be a state level Kisan Sammelan at Vidyadhar Nagar Stadium from where Farmers Welfare Fund of Rs. 1000 cr would be launched. Along with this, Rajasthan Agricultural Processing, Agriculture Policy and Agricultural Export Policy 2019 will be released. The state cabinet committee has already approved these policies. Janta Clinic Scheme will be started in Valmiki Nagar, Jagatpura on 18 December 2019 besides launching of Nirogi Rajasthan and Jan Aadhaar Scheme. 
Rajasthan govt. will start Priyadarshini Indira Gandhi Mahila Shakti Yojana (IM Shakti) dedicated for women empowerment on 18 Dec 2019. CM Ashok Gehlot has allocated Rs. 1,000 crore for this scheme in Rajasthan Budget 2019-20. Under Indira Mahila Shakti Yojana, women will be supported for setting up enterprises, assistance for modern research to be provided. Moreover, women will get training for skill development and education to create awareness. The state govt. will also ensure rehabilitation of the victimized women. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

In order to reduce the infant mortality rate, govt. will provide Indira Priyadarshini Baby Kits to all new born girls which are born in state run healthcare institutions. On Dec 19, MSME Conclave would be held at Birla Auditorium on the last day of the three-day program. Rajasthan Innovation and Startup Expo will also be organised.
At district level various programs will be held on December 19, 20 and 21. All the in-charge ministers will inaugurate the exhibitions in the districts on December 20 and will inform the public about the achievements of the state government through a press conference.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://www.moneycontrol.com/news/business/economy/rajasthan-govt-will-launch-farmer-welfare-fund-of-rs-1000cr-on-december-17-4722081.html
SAVE AS PDF
