
Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana Gramin (PMAY-G), an ambitious rural housing scheme of Narendra Modi Government has been launched in the state of Rajasthan. The chief minister of Rajasthan has launched the PM Awas Yojana Gramin on 18th March 2017 from Banswara district under which affordable homes would be constructed for the rural population in the state.
Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana Gramin (PMAY-G) Rajasthan – Highlights
The state government aims to provide home to each poor family in the rural areas of the state and hence launched the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana – Gramin. During the launch of the scheme, the chief minister provided approval letters to 5 women in presence of the rural development minister.





Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana Gramin – Launch Rajasthan





PMAY-G Rajasthan


Under the PMAY-G, the state government has set a target to build about 6.75 Lakh houses till 2018-19. Until now, the state government has approved about 1.5 Lakh houses in the state under the PMAY-G. Construction of about 40 thousand houses have been approved in the Banswara district alone. In Banswara district alone, the PMAY-G housing would cost Rs. 646 Crore.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The state government is encouraging rural population of the state to take benefits of the housing scheme launched by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. The PMAY-G earlier was running with the name of Indira Awas Yojana which was tweaked with more benefits to the beneficiaries and better implementation methodologies.
Under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana – Gramin, the central government aims to provide home to every rural poor by the year 2022. By the Year 2019, the central government has set a target of building 1 Crore homes in the country. Under the scheme, an allowance of Rs. 120,000 in plain areas and Rs. 130,000 in hilly areas will be provided for construction of homes along with a provision Rs. 12000/- for building toilets. The government would also provide 90/95 days of unskilled wage labour under MGNREGA over and above the unit cost.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

For more details about the PMAYG, please visit following links
हिंदी में पढ़ें: प्रधान मंत्री आवास योजना – ग्रामीण
IN ENGLISH: Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana – Gramin





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
