


Table of Contents

Rajasthan Old Age Pension Scheme 2019-2020 Registration FormRajasthan Old Age Pension Yojana Eligibility CriteriaRajasthan Vridhavastha Pension Status / Track Old Age Pension Beneficiary DetailsRajasthan Vridha Pension List / Old Age Pension Suchi
Social Justice and Empowerment Department (SJED) in Rajasthan has launched Old Age Pension Scheme / Mukhyamantri Vridhjan Samman Pension Yojana to provide Pension to Senior Citizens. Under Vridhavastha Pension Yojana (वृद्धावस्था पेंशन योजना), the state govt. will provide Rs. 1000 per month to the old age citizens who are domicile of Rajasthan. Eligible candidates can fill the Download Registration Form for FY 2019 & 2020 in PDF format, check their PPO status, Vridha Pension Suchi / Beneficiary List & other details at rajssp.raj.nic.in 
SJED, Rajasthan has also launched various other Social Security Pension Schemes. These Samajik Suraksha Schemes includes Vidhwa Pension Scheme & Viklang (Handicapped) Pension Yojana. In addition to the Indira Gandhi Old Age Pension Scheme, the state govt. implements its own Old Age Pension Scheme (मुख्यमंत्री वृद्धजन सम्मान पेंशन योजना). 
People can download the application form in PDF Format and fill it to avail the benefits of Old Age Pension Scheme. People can also check the Pension Payment Order (PPO) Status and Budhapa Pension List of Beneficiaries.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rajasthan Old Age Pension Scheme 2019-2020 Registration Form
All the candidates who wants to apply for the Rajasthan Vridhavastha Pension Scheme (मुख्यमंत्री वृद्धजन सम्मान पेंशन योजना) can fill the Application Form. However, the application submission is subject to the fulfillment of eligibility criteria either through Bhamashah Details or any other criteria. To download the Rajasthan Old Age Pension Scheme 2019-2020 Registration Form in PDF Format offline, candidates can click the link given below:-

Rajasthan Old Age Pension Form in Hindi (PDF)
Rajasthan Old Age Pension Scheme 2020 Application Form will appear as follows:-
Download Rajasthan Old Age Pension Scheme Application Form
Here people have to enter all the details correctly and submit the completed application form to the concerned authorities to get Pension Payment Order (PPO) Number to avail monthly pension benefits.
Rajasthan Old Age Pension Process

This scheme will enable the people to become self dependent in their old age and to raise their standards of living. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rajasthan Old Age Pension Yojana Eligibility Criteria
All the candidates must fulfill the following eligibility criteria to apply online for Vridhavastha Pension Yojana. Below is the complete procedure to check eligibility:-
Mukhyamantri Vridhjan Samman Pension Yojana Eligibility


Candidates have to visit the official website rajssp.raj.nic.in


At the homepage, click at the “Eligibility Criteria” section in the header.


To avail pension, the annual income of the family of the applicant must not exceed Rs. 48,000 per annum


Pension For Women – Women belonging to the age group of 55 to 75 years will get Rs. 750 per month while women having age of 75 years or above will get Rs. 1000 per month.


Pension For Men – Men belonging to the age group of 58 to 75 years will get Rs. 750 per month while men of 75 years or above will get Rs. 1000 per month.


All the pensioners can check their eligibility criteria through the Bhamashah Details. Moreover, pensioners can check their eligibility through Gender, Category, Marital Status, Age, BPL Type & other details.


All the candidates will have to fill the application form and then submit the completed application form to Social Welfare Officer in District / Taluka in Rajasthan. All the approved applicants will start receiving the pension amount. 

वृद्धावस्था पेंशन योजना के तहत दी जाने वाली पेंशन राशि को हमने प्रतिमाह 500 रुपए से बढ़ाकर 750 रुपए तथा 750 रुपए से बढ़ाकर 1 हजार रुपए किया है।
— Ashok Gehlot (@ashokgehlot51) December 29, 2018

These applicants can check their Pension Status and name in the Old Age Pension Beneficiary Details subject to the Eligibility Criteria. 
Rajasthan Vridhavastha Pension Status / Track Old Age Pension Beneficiary Details
Candidates can now check the Budhapa Pension Status and also Track Old Age Pension Beneficiary Details as follows:-

Visit the same official website rajssp.raj.nic.in
Next click at the “Reports” Section to open the page as shown below:-
Rajasthan Old Age Pensioner Online Status Eligibility Beneficiary Report
Then click at the “Pensioner Online Status” link in the opened page to track the old age pension scheme pensioner online status as shown below:-
Track Rajasthan Old Age Pension Status
Here candidates can enter the Application Number and then click at “Show Status” button to get the Pensioner Application Status.

Registered beneficiaries can also check their Name in Old Age Pension Scheme Beneficiary List 2019-2020. Candidates can also check Pensioners Portal PPO Status – Rajasthan Pension PPO Status 
Rajasthan Vridha Pension List / Old Age Pension Suchi
Here is the complete procedure to check name in the Old Age Pension Scheme Beneficiaries List 2019:-

Visit the official website rajssp.raj.nic.in
Go the Reports Section as mentioned above and then click at the “Beneficiary Report” section.
A new window will open containing the Social Security Pension List of Beneficiaries (District Wise). This Vridha Pension Suchi contains is drillable upto beneficiary level.
Rajasthan Old Age Pension Beneficiary List
Candidates can find their name manually in this Rajasthan Vridha Pension Suchi.

For more details like checking payment status & making complaint online, candidates can visit the official website http://rajssp.raj.nic.in/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
