


Table of Contents

Rajasthan Apna Khata – Download Jamabandi Nakal OnlineFind Apna Khata – Generate NAKAL OnlineRajasthan Apna Khata Nakal – Helpline NumberApna Khata – Terms Used in Land RecordsReferences
Rajasthan govt. has launched a new website Apna Khata where people can easily find their land records online. All the citizens can download the Jamabandi NAKAL (Copy) of Records of Rights (ROR) according to the Land Revenue Act, Rajasthan. This will eliminate the need to make unnecessary visits to Patwari as people can just select their district on Naksha (Map) and enter their account number or Khasra number to get Bhulekh. To find your jamabandi nakal, visit the official website apnakhata.raj.nic.in 
Apna Khata is a major initiative to reduce corruption and find all the land records online. This will also minimize the wastage of time as getting land records / Bhu-Abhilekh is made simpler now. People can just enter their details and get the RSN Number for duplicate copy generation. This online portal also contains info. of Revenue Officer and Authorized E-Mitra Kiosks. 
Here we are specifying the complete procedure to find your Jamabandi Nakal or Khasra / Khatauni Naksha online for your land.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rajasthan Apna Khata – Download Jamabandi Nakal Online
Below is the complete procedure to find your copy of the Bhulekh using Khata Number or Khasra / Khatauni:-

Firstly visit the official website apnakhata.raj.nic.in
Rajasthan Apna Khata Portal
Then candidates can select the “District Name” and click at that particular district.
Rajasthan Bhulekh Khatauni
After clicking the name of the district, a new window will open asking to select the Tehsil or Bhu-Abhilekh. 
Rajasthan Bhu-Abhilekh
After that People have to select their “Village” to download the Jamabandi Nakal.
Apna Khata Jamabandi Civil List
Next, candidates can directly enter either their Khata Number or Khasra Number or Name or Other Accounts to view and download NAKAL.
Apna Khata Khasra Number
Afterwards, candidates can click at the “नक़ल प्राप्त करे” tab at the bottom to download the Rajasthan Apna Khata Nakal Jamabandi. Representative Image of the Jamabandi Nakal will appear as follows:-
Apna Khata Nakal Jamabandi

Candidates can download this file and “Save it at Your Desktop” to easily take a printout of this Apna Khata Nakal of Land Records.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Find Apna Khata – Generate NAKAL Online
All the candidates can directly generate their complete details of NAKAL online using their RSN Number through the link – प्रतिलिपी जारी करने का विवरण
Even all the citizens can see the complete list of Notified Tehsils here – Notified Tehsil List
Rajasthan Apna Khata Nakal – Helpline Number
All the citizens who are facing any difficulty in getting Rajasthan Khata Nakal can contact the Revenue Officials at the link given below – Revenue Officials Phone Numbers
Even the citizens can send their “Feedback” on the services at http://apnakhata.raj.nic.in/feedback.aspx
Apna Khata – Terms Used in Land Records
The following terms are helpful in generating Jamabandi Nakal of Land Records:-

NAKAL – Duplicate / Copy of the original Land Records.
Jamabandi – This term usually refers to Land Records or Records of Rights (ROR) of a village. Jamabandi Register includes the name of land owner, area, share of owners and other rights. Jamabandi also includes cultivation, rent, revenue and other cess payable on land. This term is usually used in the northern states of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh for land records.
Khasra – This is an “Agriculture related Legal Document” in any village containing the details of the piece of agricultural land and crops grown on it. This also contains the information of land belts in rural areas. Simply, Khasra comprises of the details of farm area, owner, labourers working on that land, crops grown on that land, soil type and plantation.
Khatauni – If we prepare a list of the plots / land owned by head of the family / single family using Khasras, then it is called Khatauni.
Bhulekh / Bhu-Abhilekh – It refers to the Online Land Record Software for Maintenance of Land Records.
Naksha – It generally refers to the “Map” that contains all the information about land.

References
— The complete list of Authorized E-Mitra Kiosks is available here – ई-मित्र/अधिकृत कियोस्क उपयोगकर्ता लोगिन
— For more details, visit at the official website http://apnakhata.raj.nic.in/home.aspx





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
