
In 2014, the state government of Rajasthan has introduced the Bhamashah Yojana and Bhamashah card to empower women. Under the scheme, the women from below poverty line (BPL) families are benefited through direct benefit transfer. The beneficiary of the scheme will get the amount directly into their bank account. 
According, Bamshah card is a family card which is issued in the name of the woman because she is considered as the head of the family. In addition, the Bhamashah card is mandatory for claiming birth, death and marriage certificates. However, this card has become biggest hurdle to the beneficiaries because they are depriving of getting benefits of schemes like the Prime Minister Awas Yojana-Gramin (PMAYG), Mukhyamantri Rajshri Yojana etc.
Initially, the Bhamashah card was not mandatory to avail the benefits of the schemes but the state government made the card mandatory in June 2017. Therefore, that beneficiary has without the card, are excluded. Moreover, under the Bhamashah Yojana, the eligible beneficiary cannot take the credit beyond the limit of Rs. 50,000. Hence, the authorities cannot release the second installment, under PMAYG scheme, which is more than Rs. 50, 000.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Bhamashah Yojana and Bhamashah card
In 2016, the Mukhyamantri Rajshri Yojana was launched to encourage girl child education and arrest female foeticide. Under the scheme, a new mother of a girl child is receiving Rs. 2,500 on the completion of one year. In addition, if all vaccinations are done, the second installment of Rs. 2,500 also gets in the account of the mother.
In absence of the Bhamashah card, only 12.55% beneficiaries in Barmer district could get the second installment. In addition, thousands of beneficiaries in Barmer district have been deprived of availing benefits under the PMAG and Rajshri schemes.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

According to the data, about 9,206 beneficiaries received the first installment between June 2016 and October 2016. But the government made the card mandatory in the month of June 2017. Hence, the beneficiary of the first installment couldn’t claim the second installment because they had not the card. 
The data revealed that in absence of the Bhamashah card, the health department did not release the second installment to 8,050 registered beneficiaries in Barmer district. Mere 1,156 (12.55 %) have been able to get the second installment.
PMAY – Gramin
The concerned authority is requesting from people to enroll their name for the Bhamashah card so that they can avail the benefits. Apart from this, PMAYG is a housing scheme which was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in June 2015 to provide an affordable house with proper sanitation and power supply.
In the Bhamashah account, the upper credit limit is Rs. 50,000 that’s why authorities didn’t release the second installment of Rs 60,000. Therefore, the central government has ordered to decreased the amount of the second installment from Rs. 60,000 to Rs. 48,000 for the current financial year. 
Moreover, the government has urged to the beneficiaries of previous years to convert their ‘Jan Dhan’ account into the general account. However, the state government has informed that they are not willing to convert the Bhamashah Yojana account into a general account. For this reason, the beneficiaries of PMAYG are still deprived of the second installment because their accounts have under Bhamashah Yojana. 
The chief executive officer at Barmer Zila Parishad has suggested that the beneficiaries get details of another account so that they can release the second installment of Rs. 48000. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
