


Table of Contents

Check Name in Rajasthan Varisth Nagrik Tirth Yatra Yojana 2018 Lottery ListDeendayal Upadhyaya Varishtha Nagrik Tirth Yatra Yojana – DetailsReferences
Devasthan Vibhag, Rajasthan has released the Varisth Nagrik Tirth Yatra Yojana 2018 Lottery List. Under this scheme, govt. provides free trip to 22 holy places across India by trains and aeroplane to around 20,000 senior citizens every year. Recently the registration process for Deendayal Upadhyaya Varishtha Nagrik Tirth Yatra Yojana has ended on 20 June 2018. People can now check their name in Senior Citizen Tirth Yatra Scheme Rajasthan List 2018 at official website devasthan.rajasthan.gov.in
The primary objective of this Teerth Yatra Yojana is to provide at-least one trip of religious places outside the state to each senior citizen. This scheme was launched in 2013 and is continuing in a new form in 2018. Devasthan Vibhag organizes this yatra and also bears the boarding / lodging and food facility. Beneficiaries does not have to pay any amount from their own pocket.
List of Beneficiaries of senior citizens above 60 years is now available to download. All the pilgrims who have made registration can now check their name in Devasthan Vibhag Lottery List 2018.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Check Name in Rajasthan Varisth Nagrik Tirth Yatra Yojana 2018 Lottery List
All the senior citizens who have filled the online application form for Deendayal Upadhyaya Varistha Tirth Yojana can now download the list of selected people. Below is the complete procedure to check name in Senior Citizen Tirth Yatra Scheme Rajasthan List 2018:-

Firstly visit the official website devasthan.rajasthan.gov.in
At homepage, click at the “दीनदयाल उपाध्याय वरिष्ठ नागरिक तीर्थयात्रा योजना 2018 हेतु ऑनलाइन आवेदन / लॉटरी” link or directly click this link
Senior Citizen Tirth Yatra Scheme Rajasthan List 2018
Next click at the “लॉटरी परिणाम” option. Representative Image is shown below:-
Devasthan Vibhag Varishtha Nagrik Tirth Yatra 2018 Lottery List
Here candidates have to select their District, Fare Type and Lottery Type and hit at “खोजें” button to get the complete list. Representative image is shown below:-
Deendayal Upadhyaya Varisth Nagrik Tirth Yatra 2018 Lottery Result
The complete list with names of selected beneficiaries will get displayed on the screen.

This list can be imported to Microsoft Excel through “Export to Excel” button and candidates can also print this list through Print button at the top of the list.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Deendayal Upadhyaya Varishtha Nagrik Tirth Yatra Yojana – Details
Under this scheme, govt. provide religious trips to all the senior citizens above 60 years of age. These trips are organized through Train (Rail) or Aeroplane. Govt. provides Rs. 3,000 per person for travelling through train and Rs. 7500 per person for travelling through aeroplane. In 2018, the state govt. is organising trips to Jagannath Puri, Rameshwaram, Dwarka Puri, Tirupati and Vaishno Devi through trains. There are 17 other holy places which are organized through air travel. 
People can now check the complete details of Senior Citizen Tirth Yatra Scheme including eligibility, attendant provisions, list of places for trip, online application process and selection procedure through the link given below:-
— Deendayal Upadhyaya Varisth Nagrik Tirth Yatra 2018 Download (PDF)
— Senior Citizen Tirth Yatra Scheme Rajasthan Online Details 
References
— For more details, visit the official website http://www.devasthan.rajasthan.gov.in/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
