


Table of Contents

Rajasthan Vidhwa Pension Yojana 2018 Form PDF DownloadRajasthan Vidhwa Pension Yojana Eligibility CriteriaRajasthan Vidhwa Pension Status / Track Widow Pension Beneficiary DetailsRajasthan Vidhwa Pension List 2017-18 (विधवा पेंशनर सूचि)Pensioner’s Complaint & Payment Status
Social Justice and Empowerment Department (SJED) in Rajasthan has launched Vidhwa Pension Yojana / Mukhyamantri Ekal-Nari Samman Pension Yojana for Widow / Divorced / Left Alone women. Under Widow Pension Yojana (विधवा पेंशन योजना), the state govt. will provide upto Rs. 1500 per month to widow and destitute women of Rajasthan who are above 18 years of age. Eligible candidates can Download Vidhwa Pension Yojana Registration Form for FY 2018 in PDF format, Check Status, Vidhwa Pension List of Beneficiaries 2017-18 & other details at rajssp.raj.nic.in 
SJED, Rajasthan has also launched various other Social Security Pension Schemes. These Samajik Suraksha Schemes includes Old Age (Vridhavastha) Pension Scheme & Viklang (Handicapped) Pension Yojana. In addition to the Indira Gandhi Widow Pension Scheme, the state govt. implements its own Vidhwa Pension Scheme (मुख्यमंत्री एकलनारी सम्मान पेंशन योजना). 
People can even download the Pension Form Rajasthan PDF in hindi also and fill it to avail the benefits of Vidhwa Pension Scheme. People can also check the Pension Payment Order (PPO) Status and Rajasthan Pension List 2017-18.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rajasthan Vidhwa Pension Yojana 2018 Form PDF Download
All the candidates who wants to apply for the Rajasthan Widow Pension Scheme (मुख्यमंत्री एकल नारी सम्मान पेंशन योजना) can fill the Application Form. Before filling the online application form, all the candidates can check their eligibility criteria either through Bhamashah Details or by other details. To download the Rajasthan Vidhwa Pension Yojana 2018 Registration Form in PDF Format, candidates can click the given below:-

Rajasthan Vidhwa Pension Form in Hindi (PDF)
Rajasthan Vidhwa Pension Scheme 2018 Application Form will appear as follows:-
Rajasthan Vidhwa Pension Yojana Application Form
In this Pension Form Rajasthan PDF, people can enter all the details correctly and submit the completed application form to the concerned authorities. Then the authorities will assign a new Pension Payment Order (PPO) Number to every approved women and thus will enable them to avail monthly pension benefits.
How to Apply For Vidhwa Pension – Process – The complete procedure is given in the image below:-
Application Process Vidhwa Pension Yojana 2018

This scheme will enable the widow and destitute to become self dependent after the loss of their husband. This scheme will raise their standards of living. Widow women can also download the application form offline – Download Vidhwa Pension Yojana Rajasthan Form in Hindi (PDF) – Offline 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rajasthan Vidhwa Pension Yojana Eligibility Criteria
All the candidates must fulfill the following eligibility criteria to apply online for Vidhwa Pension Yojana. Below is the complete procedure to check Rajasthan Widow Pension Scheme Eligibility:-

Candidates have to visit the official website rajssp.raj.nic.in
At the homepage, click at the “Eligibility Criteria” section in the header or directly click this link
All the women above the age of 18 years who are Widow / Divorced or Left Out by Husbands are eligible for Mukhyamantri Akel Narri Pension Scheme.
To avail pension, the annual income of the family of the applicant must not exceed Rs. 48,000 per annum
Pension For Women –

Women between the age of 18 to 59 years will get a monthly pension of Rs. 500.
Women between the age of 60 to 74 years will get a monthly pension of Rs. 1000.
All the Women above the age of 75 years will get a monthly pension of Rs. 1500.


All the pensioners can check their eligibility criteria through the Bhamashah Details – Check Pensioner Eligibility through Bhamashah Details

Moreover, pensioners can check their eligibility through Gender, Category, Marital Status, Age, BPL Type & other details through the link – Check Pensioner Eligibility through Criteria

All the candidates will have to fill the application form and then submit the completed application form to Social Welfare Officer in District / Taluka in Rajasthan. All the approved applicants will start receiving the pension amount. These applicants can check their Pension Status and also check their name in the Vidhwa Pension Beneficiary List.
Rajasthan Vidhwa Pension Status / Track Widow Pension Beneficiary Details
Candidates can now check the Destitute & Widow Women Pension Status and also Track Vidhwa Pension Beneficiary Details as follows:-

Visit the same official website rajssp.raj.nic.in
Next click at the “Reports” Section or directly click this link
Then click at the “Pensioner Online Status“. Direct Link to check status of the pensioner is – http://rajssp.raj.nic.in/Modules/Reports/PensionerOnlineStatus/frmPensionerOnlineStatus.aspx
Track Rajasthan Vidhwa Pension Status
Here candidates can enter the Application Number and then click at “Show Status” button to get the Pensioner Application Status.

Registered beneficiaries can also check their Name in Vidhwa Pension Scheme Beneficiary List 2018. Candidates can also check Pensioners Portal PPO Status – Rajasthan Pension PPO Status 
Rajasthan Vidhwa Pension List 2017-18 (विधवा पेंशनर सूचि)
The complete procedure to check name in the Widow Pension Scheme Beneficiaries List 2018 is as follows:-

Visit the official website rajssp.raj.nic.in
Go the Reports Section as mentioned above and then click at the “Beneficiary Report” section or directly click this link
A new window will open containing the Social Security Pension List of Beneficiaries (District Wise). This Vidhwa Pension Suchi / Akel Narri Pension List is drillable upto beneficiary level. Candidates can find their name manually in this Rajasthan Vidhwa Pensioners List 2017-18 (Ditrict Wise) as shown below:-
Rajasthan Pension List 2017-18

For more details, candidates can visit the official website http://rajssp.raj.nic.in/
Pensioner’s Complaint & Payment Status
— In case of any query, candidates can register their complaint online through the link – Pensioners Complaint
— Also all the eligible beneficiaries can track their Payment Status through the link – Pensioner Payment Register





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
