
The ambitious Mukhyamantri Jal Swavlamban Abhiyan (MJSA) phase 4 has been launched in Rajasthan. This next phase will play an essential role in climate change adaption and water harvesting purposes with use of high tech applications. In the previous 3 phases, total villages covered are 16,345, total cost of work completed is 4,35,869 and total donations received are Rs. 67,30,83,183. 
Funds lying under state departments, NGOs, corporate social responsibility (CSR) will be utilized to promote water harvesting and conservation works. This would prevent the villages from drought by doing watershed rise budgeting in order to find a permanent solution and to make them self sufficient in supply of water. 
District collector will issue the administrative and financial sanctions of the amount received under Mukhya Mantri Jal Swawalamban Abhiyan after the approval of District Level Committee on priority of the works approved by the Gram Sabha. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rajasthan Mukhyamantri Jal Swavlamban Abhiyan (MJSA) 4th Phase
Rajasthan govt. has announced to launch the 4th phase of Mukhyamantri Jal Swavalamban Abhiyan (MJSA) on 3 October 2018. This campaign is for water harvesting and conservation in rural areas of the state and will cover around 4,000 villages in Rajasthan. MJSA scheme is an example of water conservation as ground water level has increased after the introduction of this campaign. This campaign is going to change the picture of the state in the future.

श्रीमती @VasundharaBJP करेंगी मुख्यमंत्री जल स्वावलंबन अभियान के चौथे चरण का शुभारंभ | pic.twitter.com/bA85uSN3LS


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

— CM Office, GoR (@RajCMO) October 3, 2018

CM Vasundhara Raje informed that the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has also recommended the implementation of the scheme in other states as well. NITI Aayog has made a special reference to the scheme in national water index report. Union agriculture ministry is inviting the states to give presentations on MJSA so that other states can implement it. Mukhyamantri Jal Swawalamban Abhiyan has resulted in around 4.66 feet increase in the ground water level. 63% hand pumps and 20% tube wells have been revised in villages which were covered under MJSA.
Various water storage structures are proposed to be created in around 4,000 villages in 4th phase. In the previous 3 phases of Mukhyamantri Jal Swavlamban Abhiyan, over 3.80 lakh water storage structures have been created in around 12,056 villages. 
Features of Mukhyamantri Jal Swavalamban Yojana (MJSA)
MJSA was launched in January 2016 which is a multi-stakeholder programme aimed at making villages self-reliant in the meeting basic water needs with special emphasis on drinking, domestic and live stock water requirements. Creation of water storage structures, revival of old structures, watershed development, water conservation activities are carried out through convergence of schemes of various departments. The important features and highlights of Mukhyamantri Jal Swavlamban Yojana are as follows:-

Making villages self-sufficient in water & creating “Islands of Excellence”.
This is a 4 year program where each phase is of one year.
Works are being carried through people’s participation.
To mobilize financial resources from multiple sources like line departments, NGOs, corporate houses, religious trusts, non-resident villagers, social groups etc.
To construct low water harvesting structures on watershed approach by the use of technology.

This MJSA scheme will result in emergence of self-water reliant villages, increase in ground water level, availability of drinking water, increase in irrigated & cultivable area. This would result in change in the cropping pattern and overall crop production.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
