
Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlaut announces Farm Loan Waiver Scheme for farmers on 19 December 2018, 2 days after taking oath as CM. Under this Kisan Karz Mafi Yojna, govt. would waive off all the short term agricultural (crop) loans taken from cooperative banks. Moreover, the state govt. also waived off loans upto Rs. 2 lakh taken from other banks, as on 30 November 2018, under Karj Mafi Yojana.
After the announcement of much awaited Farm Loan Waiver Scheme in Rajasthan, the first reaction comes from Mr. Rahul Gandhi who said “It’s done”. Rajasthan Kisan Karj Mafi Yojana is expected to add an additional burden of Rs. 18000 crore on the state exchequer. 
Latest Update: Rajasthan Farmer Loan Waiver Scheme Beneficiary List 2019



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

This Karz Mafi Scheme in Rajasthan would resolve the agarian crisis and farmers distress in the state.
Rajasthan Farm Loan Waiver Scheme (Kisan Karj Mafi Yojana)
In the run up to the assembly elections, congress party has promised to waive off the farm loans of farmers within 10 days of coming to power. Now all the 3 states i.e Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh & Chhattigarh have announced Kisan Karz Mafi Yojna. In Rajasthan Farmer Loan Waiver Scheme, govt. has write off all the short term crop loans taken by the farmers from cooperative banks.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

In addition to this, for the loans taken by the farmers from nationalized banks and other banks, the waiver would be for loans upto Rs. 2 lakh as on 30 November 2018. Kisan Karj Mafi Scheme will add an additional burden on the state exchequer but will provide a massive benefit to farmers who are in trouble and defaulted in loan payment.
CM said that “it is for the 1st time in the state that the farmers have committed suicide, situation is grave. So, the waiver would be for short term crop loans”. Rajasthan Kisan Karz Mafi Yojna is expected to benefit around 23.5 lakh farmers in the state who had taken farm loans from cooperative banks. 

It's done! 
Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh & Chhattisgarh have waived farm loans.
We asked for 10 days. 
We did it in 2.
— Rahul Gandhi (@RahulGandhi) December 19, 2018

As per the official reports, cooperative banks lend farm loans of maximum of upto Rs. 1.5 lakh. Giving reaction on it, Rahul Gandi tweeted, “We did it”. Previously, MP Farmer Loan Waiver Scheme and Chhattisgarh Farm Loan Waiver Scheme has been announced by the newly formed CM’s in their respective states.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
