
The state government of Rajasthan has decided to form a committee to decide on farm loan waiver scheme launch after a long 13 days protest of farmers across the state. The government has established a high-level technical committee which will look into demands of protesting farmers to waive off Rs 50,000 of debt per farmer.
This committee will submit its report within a month after complete study of farm loan waiver schemes being implemented in many states like Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab.
Latest Update (12th Feb 2018) – Kisan Fasal Rin Mafi Yojana announced in Rajasthan Budget 2018-19. Candidates can see details – Rajasthan Farm Loan Waiver Scheme 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Farm Loan Waiver Scheme
The state government committee will examine all the technicalities before deciding the launch of the scheme. The state government if decided to launch the farm loan waiver scheme may invite online applications form the eligible farmers. The online application forms for Karj Mafi Yojana may be invited through the official website of the state government or a new dedicated portal.
The farm loan waiver schemes are likely to be launched by Rajasthan as well as Madhya Pradesh government before the 2018 assembly elections.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

In addition, Rajasthan government is also considering to provide a monthly pension of Rs. 2,000 for those farmers who are above the age of 60 years.
Waiver of farm loans and remunerative crop prices are the two demands which were centered by the farmers during their protest.
Application Forms of Rajasthan Farm Loan Waiver Scheme
The application forms of Rajasthan farm loan waiver scheme has not been released yet by government. Application process for the scheme may soon start after the state government launch the scheme. A dedicated portal to accept application form online for farm loan waiver scheme may also be developed.
Since the scheme is not launched yet, complete information would be available as soon as the scheme is officially launched by the state govt.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
