


Table of Contents

Rajasthan Jan Aadhaar Card Yojana Online Registration / ApplicationRajasthan Jan Aadhar Card Schemes ListRajasthan Jan Aadhaar Yojana Mobile App DownloadNeed for Rajasthan Jan Aadhar Yojana Portal 2020References
Rajasthan govt. has started Jan Aadhaar Yojana Portal at janaadhaar.rajasthan.gov.in. Now people can apply online for new Jan Aadhaar Card at official website. Jan-Aadhaar Scheme was announced in the state budget 2019-20 with an objective of “One Number, One Card, One Identity” for residents of Rajasthan. The Jan Aadhar Card Online Registration & Application Form 2020 available for citizens enrollment. Check Jan Aadhaar Schemes List & how to download mobile app. 
The Rajasthan state is the largest geographical state in India and faces various challenges in delivering government services to residents. So, the state govt. has created Jan Aadhaar Card Yojana portal to provide electronic mode of service delivery. This Jan Aadhar Yojana will ensure that benefits of public welfare schemes are delivered at door-step to residents in transparent & leakage proof manner.
Jan-Aadhaar Yojana unifies the entire service delivery ecosystem of the state with a single-card, single-number, single-identity philosophy. The new Jan Aadhaar Card scheme will also reduce multiple channels of government to reach to the residents to only one. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rajasthan Jan Aadhaar Card Yojana Online Registration / Application
Here is the complete procedure to apply online for citizen enrollment in Rajasthan Jan Aadhaar Card Yojana:-

Firstly visit the official Rajasthan Jan Aadhar Yojana portal at janaadhaar.rajasthan.gov.in
At the homepage, click at the “Jan Aadhaar Enrollment” link or directly click this link
Then click at “Citizen Registration” link to open the Jan Aadhaar Card Registration Form as shown below:-
Rajasthan Jan Aadhar Card Online Registration Form
Here candidates can enter head of family name, aadhaar number, mobile number, gender and date of birth and click at “Submit” button to complete registration process.
Afterwards, candidates can click at Citizen Enrollment to open the enrollment form as shown below:-
Rajasthan Jan Aadhar Card Online Application Form

Here candidates can enter their registration number to complete the Jan Aadhaar Yojana online application process.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rajasthan Jan Aadhar Card Schemes List
People can check the complete Rajasthan Jan Aadhar Card Schemes List in the table mentioned below:-


S.No
Jan Aadhaar Services


1.
Taking benefits of government schemes & public welfare schemes


2.
Applicable as Proof of Identity (PoI) and Proof of Address (PoA)


3.
Helpful in Setting up of eligibility criteria for welfare schemes


4.
Availing benefits under Ayushman Bharat Mahatma Gandhi Rajasthan Swasthya Bima Yojana


5.
For Public Distribution Scheme (Food Security Act)


6.
Easy access through Jan Aadhaar Mobile App and maintaining list of beneficiaries so that no one is left out


Rajasthan Jan Aadhaar Yojana Mobile App Download
Now all the android phone can download Jan Aadhaar Mobile application from google play store. Here is the direct link to download mobile app for Rajasthan Jan Aadhaar Yojana:-

Rajasthan Jan Aadhaar App Download
The Rajasthan Jan Aadhar Card mobile app will look as follows:-
Rajasthan Jan Aadhaar App Download

Using Rajasthan Jan-Aadhaar App, citizens can avail various services like downloading Jan Aadhaar eCard, status of Jan-Aadhaar enrolment and card, status of DBT services availed etc. Rajasthan Jan Aadhaar Yojana Mobile App is 15 Mb in size which requires android version of 4.1 & more with current version 1.0.0.
Need for Rajasthan Jan Aadhar Yojana Portal 2020
The Rajasthan Jan Aadhar Yojana Portal aims to provide Jan-Aadhaar number which would be single identifier of a family and also an individual. It is the sole vehicle on which delivery of all kinds of cash as well non-cash benefits and services are riding and reaching to the door-step of the residents through an intertwined network of e-Mitra kiosks.
Rajasthan Jan Aadhar Yojana Portal
By overhauling the entire electronic service delivery system of the state, the Rajasthan Jan Aadhaar Yojana has some basic and some most innovative features. These includes e-bazar, e-commerce, financial inclusion, institutional finance,insurances and women empowerment to take the state to the next level of delivery of services. This janaadhaar.rajasthan.gov.in portal will make life of residents comfortable through one card and one identity.
References
— Candidates can call on HELPDESK number: 1800-180-6127 (9:00 AM to 6:00 AM | Monday to Friday)
— For further information, visit the official website at janaadhaar.rajasthan.gov.in





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: janaadhaar.rajasthan.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
