


Table of Contents

Rajasthan Viklang Pension Yojana Form / Handicapped Pension Online ApplicationRajasthan Viklang Pension 2018 Eligibility CriteriaRajasthan Handicapped Pension Status / Track Viklang Pensioner Online Application StatusRajasthan Viklang Pension List / Physically Handicapped Pensioners ListReferences
Social Justice and Empowerment Department (SJED) in Rajasthan has launched Viklang Pension Yojana 2018 / Mukhyamantri Vishesh Yogyajan Samman Pension Yojana to provide pension to physically handicapped. Under Handicapped Pension Scheme, the state govt. will provide Rs. 750 per month to every specially abled person who is resident of Rajasthan. Eligible candidates can apply online by filling the Handicapped Pension online application form / Viklang Pension Online Form Rajasthan. Alternatively, candidates can download disability certificate in PDF format, check their PPO status, Viklang Pension List & other details at rajssp.raj.nic.in 
Rajasthan Sarkar has also launched various other Social Security Pension Schemes. These Samajik Suraksha Schemes includes Vidhwa Pension Scheme & Old Age Pension Scheme. In addition to this Viklang Pension Scheme, Central govt. is also implementing its own Indira Gandhi Disabled / Nishkt Pension Scheme.
People can check disability rules 2017 and download the application form in PDF Format and fill it to avail the benefits of Pension Scheme in Rajasthan. People can also check the Pension Payment Order (PPO) Status and Viklang Pension List of Beneficiaries.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rajasthan Viklang Pension Yojana Form / Handicapped Pension Online Application
All the candidates can now apply online for Disability Certificate under Rajasthan Sarkar Viklang Pension Yojana 2018. Interested candidates can fill the Handicapped Pension Online Application Form subject to the fulfillment of eligibility criteria either through Bhamashah Details or any other criteria. To download the Viklang Pension Form Rajasthan in PDF Format in Hindi, candidates can click the link given below:-

Viklang Pension Yojana Rajasthan Form – PDF in Hindi
Accordingly, Physically Handicapped Pension Application Form will appear as follows:-
Viklang Pension Form Rajasthan PDF in Hindi
Here people have to enter all the details correctly and submit the completed application form to concerned authorities to get Pension Payment Order (PPO) Number. Finally, candidates can make disability certificate download rajasthan to avail monthly pension benefits.
Disability Certificate Download Online Apply Process

Rajasthan Pension Scheme will enable the handicapped people to become self dependent and to raise their standards of living. People can also download the application form offline – Download Rajasthan Old Age Pension Form in Hindi (PDF) – Offline 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rajasthan Viklang Pension 2018 Eligibility Criteria
All the candidates must fulfill the following eligibility criteria to apply for Viklang Pension Online. Below is the complete procedure to check eligibility for viklang pension 2018:-
Rajasthan Sarkar Viklang Pension Yojana Eligibility


Candidates have to visit the official website rajssp.raj.nic.in


At homepage click at the “Eligibility Criteria” section in the main menu or directly click this link


To avail pension rajasthan, the annual income of the family of the applicant must not exceed Rs. 60,000 p.a


Pension for all Handicapped Persons – All the physically handicapped persons with more than 40% disability belonging any age group will get Rs. 750 monthly under Rajasthan Viklang Pension 2018. Even the people suffering naturally with less than 3 feet 6 inch heed or are transgenders in nature can also fill the handicapped pension application form.


All the pensioners of viklang pension yojana can check their eligibility criteria through the Bhamashah Details – Check Viklang Pensioner Eligibility through Bhamashah Details


Even pensioners can now check their eligibility by their Gender, Category, Marital Status, Age, BPL Type & other details through the link – Check Viklang Pensioner Eligibility through Criteria


All the candidates will have to fill the disability certificate online application form and then submit this viklang pension form with necessary details to Social Welfare Officer in District / Taluka in Rajasthan. All the approved applicants will soon start receiving the pension amount. All the handicapped applicants can even check their Pension Status and Name in the Physically Handicapped Pension Beneficiary Details subject to the
Rajasthan Disability Rules 2017. 
Rajasthan Handicapped Pension Status / Track Viklang Pensioner Online Application Status
Candidates can now check the Physically Handicapped Pensioners Status and also Track Handicapped Pension Beneficiary Details as follows:-

Again open the same official website rajssp.raj.nic.in
Next go to the “Reports” Section or directly click this link
Then click at the “Pensioner Online Status“. Direct Link to check status of the disabled pensioner is – http://rajssp.raj.nic.in/Modules/Reports/PensionerOnlineStatus/frmPensionerOnlineStatus.aspx
Track Rajasthan Handicapped Pension Status 2018
Here candidates can enter the Application Number and then click at “Show Status” button to get the Pensioner Application Status.

Registered beneficiaries can also check their Name in Viklang Pension List Rajasthan. Candidates can also check Pensioners Portal PPO Status – Rajasthan Pension PPO Status 
Rajasthan Viklang Pension List / Physically Handicapped Pensioners List
Here is the complete procedure to check name in the Viklang Pension Yojana Beneficiaries List 2018:-

Visit the official website rajssp.raj.nic.in
Go the “Reports Section” as mentioned above and then click at the “Beneficiary Report” section or directly click this link
A new window will open containing the Social Security Pension List of Beneficiaries (District Wise). This Physically Handicapped Pensioners Suchi is drillable upto beneficiary level. Candidates can find their name manually in this Vishesh Yogyajan Pension Suchi (Abstract) – Pension List Rajasthan.

For more details, candidates can visit the official website http://rajssp.raj.nic.in/
References
— In candidate is facing any query, then such Persons with Disabilities (PwD) can register their complaint online through the link – Pensioners Complaint
— The eligible beneficiaries for Rajasthan Sarkar Handicapped Pension Yojana can also track their Payment Status through the link – Pensioner Payment Register





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
