
Rajasthan govt. has launched Bhamashah Digital Parivar Yojana for NFSA beneficiaries (Women belonging to BPL families). Under this free smartphone scheme, all the beneficiaries of National Food Security Act (NFSA) will get financial assistance for buying Smartphones and Internet connectivity. Govt. will distribute mobile phones to 1 crore Below Poverty Line (BPL) families. This scheme would result in transfer of financial and non-financial benefits of govt. schemes in an efficient manner. 
CM Vasundhra Raje said that govt. is making efforts to launch new mobile apps to provide benefits of govt. schemes by simply pushing single click on mobile phones. Various other facilities like Free Wi-Fi, Bhamashah wallet has been launched by the state govt. to empower poor people.
The state govt. is focusing on making people digitally literate and to encourage digital modes of payment through Bhamashah Digital Parivar Yojana. Free Mobile Phone Scheme to BPL people will provide a boost to “Digital India” campaign of Narendra Modi government.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rajasthan Bhamashah Digital Parivar Yojana – Free Smartphones & Internet
The important features and highlights of Free Mobile Scheme in Rajasthan for BPL people are as follows:-

Under Bhamashah Digital Parivar Yojana, all the poor people of BPL category will get free mobile phones.
In the first installment, they will get Rs. 500 to buy a phone and in next installment, again Rs. 500 for Internet Connectivity / Recharge.
These free mobile phones will enable women to take benefits of financial and non-financial government scheme.
Digital India campaign will get a boost and will also promote transparency, speed and convenience. This would result in efficient delivery of govt. services and benefits to the residents of state.
Various new apps would be launched to ease down the process of getting govt. scheme benefits only through a single click.
The cash assistance will be transferred into 2 installments of Rs. 500 each directly into the Bhamashah linked bank accounts.
Rajasthan Bhamashah Digital Parivar Yojana NFSA Beneficiaries
First Installment –

The 1st installment of Rs. 500 will be transferred directly into the bank account of the lady of house (head of the family under Bhamashah).
No application will be required from the beneficiaries.
Bhamashah Digital Parivar Yojana camps will be organized by district administration across the state.
In these camps, several mobile phone companies manufacturers and dealers and telecom companies will participate to sell their smart-phones and internet packages.
Beneficiaries can buy mobile hand sets and voice data connections from any of these companies.


Second Installment –

To avail 2nd installment, people can download any one of these apps of state govt. – Bhamashah Wallet, Rajasthan Sampark, Raj-Mail in their smartphone.
All the newly installed app will have the feature of Smartphone Registration. After successful registration, 2nd installment of Rs. 500 will be transferred directly into the bank account of the beneficiary.
Registered mobile no. has to be in the name of one of family members.


Rajasthan Bhamashah Digital Parivaar Yojana Free Smartphones Internet

The state govt. will provide free Wi-fi facilities in 5000 gram panchayats to ensure that the state is well connected with the outside world. This program will be held from 1 September to 30 September 2018. Previously on 29 August 2018, the state govt. has launched Bhamashah Wallet Mobile in order to increase the digital payments.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Earlier CM has also launched Abhay Command Centers at Dausa, Sriganganagar, Baker, Bhilwara, Karauli and Dhaulpur. Govt. has equipped these centers with latest facilities like Dial 100, Traffic management, Video Surveillance and Cyber Forensics. 
The state govt. is going to organize “Jio Bhamashah Program” camps and has issued notification in this regard. To promote Digital Rajasthan Campaign, govt. is providing all scheme benefits under Bhamashah Yojana. This state assembly term in Rajasthan is going to end on 20 January 2019.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
