


Table of Contents

Rajasthan Berojgari Bhatta Online Registration 2019-2020 @ rajasthan.gov.inRajasthan Berojgari Bhatta Online Registration @ employment.livelihoods.rajasthan.gov.inRajasthan CM Yuva Sambal Yojana EligibilityRajasthan Brojgari Bhatta Scheme Helpline NumberRajasthan Unemployment Allowance Amount
Rajasthan government invites Berojgari Bhatta Online Registration Form 2019-2020 at www.employment.livelihoods.rajasthan.gov.in or rajasthan.gov.in. Under Mukhyamantri Yuva Sambal Yojana, girls will get unemployment allowance of Rs. 3500 and boys will get Rs. 3000 amount per month for 2 years. All the jobless candidates who are seeking employment and are still unemployed can now apply online for CM Yuva Sambal Yojana. Moreover, jobless candidates can download Rajasthan Berozgari Bhatta Apply online form in PDF format to get eems registration number.
CM Ashok Gehlot has also announced that the state govt. will start providing this raised amount of unemployment allowance in Rajasthan from 1 March 2019. The unemployment allowance scheme was introduced by CM in his last tenure. It began with Rs. 600 and now the berojgari bhatta amount for youths in Rajasthan has been raised upto Rs. 3500 p.m.
The state govt. has also started preparations to ensure minimum income guarantee to poor citizens for the welfare of citizens.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rajasthan Berojgari Bhatta Online Registration 2019-2020 @ rajasthan.gov.in
Below is the complete procedure to make online registration and to apply online for Unemployment Allowance Scheme:-

Step 1 – Firstly visit the official website rajasthan.gov.in
Step 2 – At the homepage, scroll over the “Employment” tab and click at the “Careers” option to open the page as shown below:-
Rajasthan Unemployment Allowance Apply Online
Step 3 – Afterwards, candidates can make Rajasthan SSO ID Registration & Login to apply online and make online registration for Berojgari Bhatta.
Step 4 – After making registration and login for SSO ID portal, candidates can click at the “Employment” tab:-
Berojgari Bhatta Rajasthan Apply Online
Step 5 – Here candidates would be redirected to http://www.employment.livelihoods.rajasthan.gov.in/ website where they can fill the Berojgari Bhatta Rajasthan Online Form. This will complete the process to avail enhanced berojgari bhatta amount under the unemployment allowance scheme.

Moreover, candidates can download / print the duly filled in berozgari bhatta form in pdf format for any future reference.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rajasthan Berojgari Bhatta Online Registration @ employment.livelihoods.rajasthan.gov.in
Here is the complete process to fill Rajasthan Berojgari Bhatta Online Registration Form 2019-2020 @ employment.livelihoods.rajasthan.gov.in website:-

Firstly visit the official website at employment.livelihoods.rajasthan.gov.in
At the homepage, click at the “Menu” option and then click at the “Apply For Unemployment Allowance” link:-
Rajasthan Unemployment Allowance Apply
Step 3 to 5 are same as mentioned above.

Rajasthan CM Yuva Sambal Yojana Eligibility
All the jobless candidates can check the eligibility criteria before emaking Berojgari Bhatta online registration as mentioned below:-

Candidates must be a permanent resident of Rajasthan.
All the candidates must belong to the age group of 21 to 35 years.
He / She must have completed their 12th class along with graduation / post-graduation degree.
All the applicants must be unemployed and those who have worked previously and are currently idle can also apply online for berojgari bhatta.
The annual income of the family of the applicant from all sources must not exceed Rs. 3 lakh per annum.

To avail assistance under Berojgari Bhatta scheme in Rajasthan, candidates must possess Aadhaar Card, Voter ID Card, Bhamashah ID, SSO ID, domicile certificate, e-mail ID and mobile number.
Rajasthan Brojgari Bhatta Scheme Helpline Number
For all the jobless candidates, the state govt. has started a helpline number to provide assistance to the unemployed youths to get berojgari bhatta in Rajasthan. The toll free number is 1800-180-6127 where unemployed candidates can get more information about the departmental plans. 
Rajasthan Unemployment Allowance Amount
The raised berojgari bhatta amount in Rajasthan is to be given by the state govt. from 1 March 2019. As per the announcement, the new amount under the unemployment allowance scheme is Rs. 3500 for girls and Rs. 3000 for boys.
To get more details and apply form PDF download, check Berojgari Bhatta Guidelines at this link or visit the official website http://www.employment.livelihoods.rajasthan.gov.in/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
