
राजस्थान वोटर लिस्ट 2020 (PDF) अब सीईओ की आधिकारिक वेबसाइट ceorajasthan.nic.in पर उपलब्ध है, नयी मतदाता सूची में अपना नाम अपनी जानकारी या EPIC नंबर के आधार पर खोजें और वोटर ID कार्ड डाउनलोड करें

Table of Contents

Rajasthan Voter List 2020 PDF DownloadDownload Voter ID Card Online – Find Name in Voters ListFind Name in Rajasthan Voters ListName Check in CEO Voters List With Area / Locality (Gram Panchayat Wise)Other Important LinksReferences
Rajasthan voter list 2020 can be downloaded from the official website of CEO Rajasthan in PDF format. Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Rajasthan has published the final CEO Voter List 2020 and name search facility is now available in PDF Electoral Rolls. People can find their name in Rajasthan CEO Voters List 2020-21 @ ceorajasthan.nic.in and can Download Voter ID Card to cast their important vote.
The voter list PDF download procedure on the official website of CEO Rajasthan is very easy, you just have to select the name of the district and then assembly constituency and click the search button. Below is the complete easy procedure to download the Rajasthan voter list 2020 PDF.
People can also check their name in the district-wise / gram panchayat wise voter list along with their photo. Moreover, people can also download the entire PDF file of the Electoral Roll (Voter List) and perform manual searching in the CEO Rajasthan Voter List 2020.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rajasthan Voter List 2020 PDF Download
Below is the complete procedure to download Draft Electoral Roll / District-Wise Voters List 2018:-
STEP 1: Visit the official website ceorajasthan.nic.in


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

STEP 2: On the homepage, click the “Final Photo Electoral Roll 2020” under the “Citizen Center” section.
Direct Link – To directly download the PDF File of district-wise voter list, candidates can click the link – http://ems.raj.nic.in/electoralroll/rln
STEP 3: A screen similar to the given below will open, where candidates have to select the “District Name” and “Assembly Constituency” and enter the captcha text.
Rajasthan Voter List Search
STEP 4: Then “District Wise / Gram Panchayat Voter List Rajasthan 2020” will appear as shown in figure:-
Rajasthan Voter List PDF
STEP 5: Here click the “View / Print” link to open the Captcha verification page. Enter the Captcha and then click at the “Verify” tab to download the Voter List in PDF format along with their photograph. Representative Image is shown in the figure:-
Rajasthan Voter ID Card Download CEO Voters List 2020
STEP 6: Finally, candidates can perform manual search in downloaded file to find there name in complete list.
Candidates can also download the Supplement-1 of Photo Electoral Roll 2020 (Poorak List) as released by the CEO Rajasthan through the link – Supplement Voter List With Photo Download
Download Voter ID Card Online – Find Name in Voters List
The complete procedure to find your name online and download the Voter ID Card is specified as follows:-
Candidates can Search Name Online in Electoral Roll at the official website of CEO RajasthanSubsequently, candidates have to click at the link – Search Name In Electoral RollA new window for finding name in Rajasthan Voter List 2020 Online appears as shown below:-
Rajasthan Name Find Voter ID Card Download
Here candidates can easily check / find their name online in the Gram Panchayat Wise Voter List Rajasthan using their ID Card No. / EPIC Number, Name and Area / Locality.Moreover, candidates can register their mobile number and also download the Mobile App for Rajasthan ELections through the link – Rajasthan Voter List AppFinally, after finding their name online, candidates can download the Voter ID Card and take a printout to caste their important vote.
In case of difficulty in finding name online, click at SMS Based Helpline / Know Your BLO By SMS
Find Name in Rajasthan Voters List
All the candidates are advised to check their name online in the Rajasthan Voter List before the general assembly elections to avoid last minute rush. They can find their name online using either with their Name or Voter ID Card details (EPIC – Electoral Photo ID Card) using the link given below:-
Search Name with EPIC ID Card Number in Voters List 2020Name Find Page using “Voter ID Card with Photo” details or by the “Name” will appear as follows:-
Find Name Voter List EPIC
Here candidates can enter their Voter ID Card with Photo – EPIC Number details and find their name in CEO Rajasthan Voters List. Even the candidates can Check Name in CEO Voters List with Name and Other details. For this, they have to enter their District, Assembly Constituency, Name, Gender, House Number and click at the “ढूंढे” button. Then all the details of the citizen eligible for voting will get displayed on the screen. Finally can download this file and take a printout of their Voter ID Card.
Name Check in CEO Voters List With Area / Locality (Gram Panchayat Wise)
Candidates can directly search name in electoral roll using their Area / locality through link given below:-Check Name Gram Panchayat Wise Voters List using Locality
Here candidates have to enter their District, Area / Locality and click at the “खोजे” button to fetch details of the voter. Furthermore, all those people whose name does not appears in the list does not have to worry. CEO Rajasthan will update the Voters Database Regularly and enroll them in the new Supplementary List. So, make online enrollment for the Rajasthan Voter List and then download your Voter ID Card.
Other Important Links
— List of All EROs— Register Your Complaint — Maps, Election Forms— Feedback, Voter’s Guide
References
— Form Status applied during Continuous Updation of Electoral Roll 2020 – Voter Card Check Status— Candidates can also see List of All Polling Stations and Location of Polling Stations on Google Map





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: ceorajasthan.nic.in
SAVE AS PDF
