


Table of Contents

Objective of Mukhyamantri Jan Awas YojanaMukhyamantri Jan Awas Yojana Application FormsNeed of Chief Minister’s Jan Awas YojanaGoals of Mukhyamantri Jan Awas YojanaBenefits under Jan Awas Yojana
Government of Rajasthan framed a new policy named as “Mukhyamantri Jan Awas Yojana 2015” to cater the basic need of shelter. The scheme was prepared by the Urban Development and Housing Department of the state with the main objective of achieving the goal of affordable and quality housing for all. The scheme primarily caters to the housing needs of people belonging to economically weaker sections or lower income group of the society.
Rajasthan Mukhyamantri Jan Awas Yojana will help in creating the quality housing stock for people belonging to EWS/LIG categories of the society. The CM Jan Awas Yojana will ensure that the houses are available at affordable prices to all the needy state residents.
Under the Mukhyamantri Jan Awas Yojana, EWS/LIG houses will be constructed by Government agencies like development authorities, improvement trusts, ULBs, housing board etc. and by private sector. The state government will be providing hosts of incentives to attract private developers for construction of houses for EWS/LIG segment.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

LATEST UPDATE: Some new amendments in Rajasthan Jan Awas Yojana in 2017 have been done, check here.
Objective of Mukhyamantri Jan Awas Yojana
The main objective of Jan Awas Yojana 2015 is to achieve affordable housing for all and integrated habitat development. The scheme is prioritized to provide housing in general and for EWS and LIG sections of the society in particular.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Launched to realize the dream of the poor, the scheme has been integrated with Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana to provide more incentives to the beneficiaries. The scheme has many provisions to attract private developers and government bodies to construct affordable housing in the state.
The policy aims to motivate housing board, development authorities, urban improvement trusts & other local bodies to take up the construction of affordable housing especially for EWS and LIG categories.
Mukhyamantri Jan Awas Yojana Application Forms
The applications for the Mukhyamantri Jan Awas Yojana are invited by the housing development agencies basis on projects developments and the involved private developers by their own. There is no specific application form which you can fill to apply for Jan Awas Yojana.
As and when a new housing project is approved / started under the scheme, the developer whether a government agency or private developer invites the applications for Jan Awas Yojana by publishing the print advertisement or digital modes.
To check any application forms under the scheme by Rajasthan Housing Board, visit here. Or you can also visit the official website of Urban Improvement Trust of respective city/town/district.
Need of Chief Minister’s Jan Awas Yojana
In Rajasthan, total housing shortage in the urban sector was estimated to be 1.05 million by Technical Group on Housing Shortage, constituted by Govt. of India out of which more than 85% is in the EWS/LIG category. The rapid increase in urbanization is also leading to more demand of affordable housing and other related infrastructure.
To bridge the gap between demand and supply, the new policy was formed and achieve the goal of “Affordable Housing for All” with special focus on economically weaker section, lower income group and urban poor.
The Affordable Housing Policy – 2009 was renamed to Mukhyamantri Jan Awas Yojana with some major amendments. The 2009 policy did not achieve much progress due to certain shortcomings and bottlenecks in the implementation.
Goals of Mukhyamantri Jan Awas Yojana

Creating EWS/LIG housing stock to fulfill housing shortage in the State.
To incentivize private developers and attract investment for construction of houses for EWS/LIG segment of the society.
To motivate govt. agencies and private developers to take up construction of Affordable Housing.
To identify land for affordable housing which can be monetized by inviting private participation on a large scale.
Fast track approval for private developers to expedite the process of construction.

Under the policy, there are certain provisions for private developers as well as the government bodies responsible for providing housing in the state.
Under the policy, there is 100% waiver on EWS/LIG component for Land Conversion / Land use change charges for private developers. Same is the case with the building plan approval charges. Under the policy, the private developers are also bound to complete the projects on time. The timeline for completion of projects with EWS/LIG component of all the provisions shall be as below:-

up to 200 EWS/LIG units – 30 months
above 200 upto 400 EWS/LIG units – 36 months
above 400 upto 600 EWS/LIG units – 42 months
above 600 EWS/LIG units – 48 months

In case the developer fails to construct EWS/LIG housing units within the stipulated time, penalty shall be imposed as follows:-
(i) For first three months Rs.50/- per sq.ft.
(ii) For next three months Rs.100/- per sq.ft.
(iii) For next six months Rs.200/- per sq.ft.
Benefits under Jan Awas Yojana
Any project which qualifies for Credit Linked Subsidy Scheme or Affordable Housing in Partnership or Beneficiary Led Individual house construction or enhancement scheme may be sent to Government of India.
Credit Linked Subsidy Scheme
Credit Linked Subsidy will be provided to EWS/LIG for procurement or construction of house. Beneficiaries of EWS/LIG seeking housing loan from bank or other financial institutions would be eligible for interest subsidy @ 6.5% for a tenure of 15 years. This will be available for loan amount up to Rs. 6 lakhs.
This facility will be available for housing loans availed for new construction where area of housing units shall be up to 30 sqm carpet area for EWS and up to 60 sqm for LIG is being constructed.
Affordable Housing in Partnership
Under this provision financial assistance to EWS houses is available and Central assistance @ Rs. 1.5 lakh per EWS house would be available for the projects being built by Local Bodies or in partnership with private sector.
Beneficiary Led Individual House Construction
In case EWS plots are allotted by Local Authority in their scheme such allottee belonging to EWS category to construct house on such land owned by him may avail central assistance of Rs. 1.5 lakh for construction of new house. The beneficiary for availing this assistance shall approach the ULB with documentation of land ownership.
The complete details of Mukhyamantri Jan Awas Yojana 2015 can be found at the link below
https://urban.rajasthan.gov.in/content/dam/raj/udh/organizations/rudifco/pdf/Chief_Minister%27s_Jan_Awas_Yojana-2015.pdf





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
