
Rajasthan govt. has launched Annapurna Doodh Yojana for 62 lakh children studying in various govt. schools and madrasa. CM Vasundhra Raje launches this scheme on 2 July 2018 by providing milk to students in Rajkiya Adarsh Uchch Madhyamik Vidyalaya in Dehmi Kalan Village of Jaipur. Each student upto Class 8th will get fresh, pure and nutritious hot milk for 3 days in a week. 
This is a major initiative of the state govt. towards the happy and healthy future of the state. Annapoorna Milk Scheme will be implemented in all the govt. schools and madarsas along with the Mid Day Meal Scheme / Annapurna Rasoi Yojana). 
Rajasthan govt. focuses on making children healthier which will further lead to the overall improvement in the education standard and also for the development of the state.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rajasthan Annapurna Doodh Yojana 2018-19 – Milk to Govt. School & Madrasa Students
The important features and highlights of this Annapurna Dudh Yojana are as follows:-

Each student from Class 1st to 5th will get 150 ml of milk along with the Mid Day Meal.
Each student from Class 6th to 8th will get 200 ml of milk along with the Mid Day Meal.
Govt. will provide milk to around 80,000 govt. schools and madrasa on a daily basis as milk is perishable item.
Govt. will ensure that the supplied dudh is of high quality and upto the prescribed standards.
Milk has various health benefits which includes improvement in bone strength, smoother skin and stronger immune system, prevention of Hypertension, dental decay, dehydration, respiratory problems. Other benefits includes prevention from obesity, osteoporosis and even some forms of cancer.

There are around 85,00,000 lakh students upto class 12th and around 62 lakh children upto class 8th in Rajasthan. The state govt. will ensure that all the students upto class 8th will get covered under this Annapoorna Milk Scheme.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Annapurna Doodh Yojana will provide essential nutrients necessary for a children and will also increase the number of admissions in schools. Govt. lay special emphasis on Women’s Milk Producing Committees to provide milk to the students. For more details, click the link – Annapoorna Milk Scheme for Students Upto 8th 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
