
Rajasthan government has decided to rename Bhamashah Rojgar Srijan Yojana (BRSY) as Chief Minister’s Rojgar Srijan Yojana. CMRSY scheme will be taken to each panchayat samiti and will create new self employment opportunities for jobless youths. All the unemployed candidates can make CM Rozgar Srijan Yojana registration by filling the application forms to avail loans from banks to start new business. 
The scope and impact of the new CMRSY Scheme would be expanded with effective implementation and adequate budgetary support. CM Rojgar Srijan Yojana aims to make all the unemployed youths self reliant and make them job givers rather than jobseekers. Micro, small and medium enterprises department will oversee the implementation of Mukhyamantri Rozgar Srijan Yojana (CMRSY). 
Under CM Rozgar Srijan Yojana, educated women, SC / ST youths, disabled and unemployed youths from other sections can get interest subsidy on loans for new businesses. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rajasthan CM’s Rojgar Srijan Yojana (CMRSY)
The important features and highlights of new CM’s Rozgar Srija Yojana are as follows:-

Rajasthan govt. will target 100 unemployed youths in every panchayat samiti who would be given loans with interest rate subsidies.
Under the previous BRSY scheme, all the jobless youths are given 8% interest subsidy on bank loans for self employment.
The maximum limit of loan is Rs. 10 lakh for service and trading activity and Rs. 25 lakh for the manufacturing sector under Mukhyamantri Rojgar Srijan Yojana.
The state govt. will back the scheme with ample budgetary support and improve its scope and deepen it impact for the benefit of all employed youth and women.
Rajasthan govt. will focus on providing skill training and ensure that all the job less candidates gets suitable jobs. For this purpose, unemployed youths will get both money and training to start their own business under Mukhyamantri Rojgar Srijan Yojana.
Dept. of Industries is consistently focusing on providing appropriate jobs as this was the highlights of Congress election manifesto.

The state govt. is also preparing a new industrial policy which is also expected to provide thrust on job generation. To apply online, candidates can fill the CM’s Rojgar Srijan Yojana application form at the official SSO ID portal at sso.rajasthan.gov.in. The new industrial policy would be specifically designed with focus on creation of large scale employment opportunities.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The state govt. of Rajasthan has already given orders to the concerned officers to rename Bhamashah Rojgar Srijan Yojana to Mukhyamantri Rojgar Srijan Yojana.
Rajasthan CM’s Rojgar Srijan Yojana
The state govt. will study various models adopted by different state governments in order to ensure that the state govt. has best policy that takes care of the unemployed youth.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
