
Rajasthan govt. is going to launch Annapoorna Milk Scheme in the state from 2 July 2018. Under this scheme, all the govt. school students studying in Class 1st to Class 5th will be given 150 ml of milk while the students from Class 6th to Class 8th will get 200 ml of milk everyday. Annapurna Milk Scheme will ensure proper nutrition to the children and thus will lead them to a healthier lifestyle.
Govt. is planning to launch Annapurna Doodh Yojana after the huge success of its previous Annapoorna Rasoi Scheme. In this scheme, milk will be provided to around 80,000 government schools in the state on a daily basis as milk is a perishable food. 
Around 85,00,000 students are studying upto 12th standard in various govt. schools out of which students upto 8th class will get benefited from this scheme. Moreover, govt. will follow the prescribed standards and quality checks before supplying the milk to the students. Minister of Education Vasudev Devnani has informed about the launch of this scheme.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Annapoorna Milk Scheme in Rajasthan
The state govt. will launch this scheme in order to provide milk to the students belonging to poor sections of the society who cannot afford milk. Milk is an essential food and has various health benefits, some of them are listed below:-

Improvement in bone strength, smoother skin and stronger immune system.
Prevention of Hypertension, dental decay, dehydration, respiratory problems.
Other benefits includes prevention from obesity, osteoporosis and even some forms of cancer.
Milk is essential for the overall growth of the human body and prevention of chronic ailments.

This special scheme will cover a large section of the students as there are more than 85 lakhs students studying in around 80,000 govt. schools in Rajasthan. All the students upto 8th standard will get this milk absolutely free of cost. Moreover, school management committees will be responsible for the proper distribution of milk among the students.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rajasthan Mid Day Meal Scheme
To ensure the supply of proper nutrition in the schools, the state govt. is already implementing Mid Day Meal Scheme in Rajasthan . Under this mid day meal scheme, all the students studying in class 1st to Class 5th are given lunch everyday. Rajasthan govt. takes note of the nutrient content in the food given on a daily basis to the students. .
Under Mid Day Meal Scheme, govt. provides food to students for 6 days in a week. This includes Roti and Sabzi on Monday, Rice, Dal & Sabzi on Tuesday, Roti & Dal on Wednesday, Khichdi, Dal & Rice on Thursday, Roti & Dal on Friday and Roti & Sabzi on Saturday. There is also a provision of providing seasonal fruits to the children.
All the students of Class 1st to 5th requires food with 450 calories and 12 grams of protein. This amount is higher in the class 6th to class 8th where students requires 700 calories of food with 20 gram of protein. So, Rajasthan govt. is running Mid Day Meal Scheme from 2010 in which every student gets different nutritious food daily and thus get proper nourishment.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
