
Annapurna Rasoi Yojana is a new ambitious meal scheme launched by the state Government of Rajasthan to provide subsidized meal in the state. The subsidized meal scheme “Annapurna Rasoi Yojana” has finally been launched with the tagline “Sabke liye bhojan, sabke liye sammaan (Food for all, respect for all)”.
The scheme launch was marked by CM Vasundhara Raje feeding a morsel to a Dalit and a Gurjar woman at Jaipur Municipal Corporation campus. The scheme will be implemented through Jeevan Sambal Trust.
Annpurna Rasoi Yojana has now been replaced with Indira Rasoi Yojana.
Objective of Annapurna Rasoi Yojana
The main objective of the scheme is to provide food to all those looking for food they can afford. The scheme will primarily help labourers, rickshaw pullers, auto-rickshaw drivers, students, working women, senior citizens, and others to have breakfast and lunch at affordable rates.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Annapurna Rasoi Yojana – Cost of Meal
Breakfast under the Annapurna Rasoi Yojana will be sold at just Rs. 5 while lunch will be available for Rs. 8 only. The actual cost of the meal would be Rs. 23.70 for lunch and Rs 21.70 for breakfast. The customer will have to borne only Rs. 5 and Rs. 8 for breakfast and lunch respectively while rest will be funded by the state government.
Meal under the Annapurna Rasoi Yojana would be provided through 80 special vans as of now. The scheme at present has been launched at just divisional headquarters in 12 districts. However, it will be expanded to cover the entire state following success in these districts. Following are the districts where the scheme has been launched


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

DistrictNo. of VansJaipur25Jhalawar6Jodhpur5Udaipur5Ajmer5Kota5Bikaner5Bharatpur5Dungarpur4Banswara4Pratapgarh3Baran3
Jaipur will have the highest number of vans, as much as 25 vans to provide subsidized food under the Annapurna Rasoi Yojana.
The meals under the scheme will be cooked and served by the staff trained in hospitality. The staff working under the scheme will have a unique uniform along with gloves, caps and apron.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
