
राजस्थान सरकार ने मुख्यमंत्री युवा सम्बल योजना के जारी किये दिशा निर्देश, जानिये कैसे करें बेरोजगारी भत्ता स्कीम के लिए ऑनलाइन आवेदन / पंजीकरण

Table of Contents

Rajasthan Mukhyamantri Yuva Sambal Yojana Apply OnlineRajasthan CM Yuva Sambal Yojana (Berojgari Bhatta) GuidelinesList of Documents for Rajasthan Mukhyamantri Yuva Sambal YojanaRajasthan Unemployment Allowance Amount / DurationObjectives of Rajasthan Mukhyamantri Yuva Sambal Yojana 2020
Rajasthan govt. is inviting for Mukhyamantri Yuva Sambal Yojana online application / registration form. Now all the unemployed graduates can apply online to get unemployment allowance i.e Rs. 3500 for girls and Rs. 3,000 for boys. To avail benefits of this Rajasthan govt. yojna, people will have to apply online for CM Yuva Sambal Yojana. Accordingly, people can make Rajasthan Berojgari Bhatta Yojana Online Registration to get their name in the list of beneficiaries.
Although the Berojgari Bhatta Yojna in Rajasthan was launched in the month of February 2019, the Mukhyamantri Yuva Sambal Yojana guidelines have been released now. All the candidates can now make Berojgari Bhatta Rajasthan Online Registration 2020 and fill application form at employment.livelihoods.rajasthan.gov.in/website/ or rajasthan.gov.in to get eems registration number.
Rajasthan with more than 7 crore population has given several industrialists and professionals to the country. In order to further boost the potential of people, the state govt. has laid the vision to create 15 lac jobs in the next 5 years. Moreover, there is a vision to accelerate the growth rate in the state to 10%-12%.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rajasthan Mukhyamantri Yuva Sambal Yojana Apply Online
Below is the complete procedure to apply online for Rajasthan Mukhyamantri Yuva Sambal Yojana 2020:-
Firstly visit the official website at http://employment.livelihoods.rajasthan.gov.in/website/index.aspxAt the homepage, click at the “Apply For Unemployment Allowance” link as shown below:-
Rajasthan Unemployment Allowance Apply Online
 People can even make Rajasthan SSO ID Login by directly clicking at the https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/signin as shown below:-
Rajasthan Berojgari Bhatta Yojana Login
People can even directly make Rajasthan SSO ID registration by directly clicking https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/register link
Rajasthan Mukhyamantri Yuva Sambal Yojana Registration
Here applicants can make registration using the Jan Aadhaar, Bhamashah, Facebook and Google account.
Rajasthan CM Yuva Sambal Yojana (Berojgari Bhatta) Guidelines
People must read the Mukhyamantri Yuva Sambal Yojana Guidelines to avail the benefits of the Berojgari Bhatta Scheme:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The candidates must be a bonafide resident of the Rajasthan state.Applicant must be unemployed i.e he / she must not be working in govt. / private job.Only those applicants whose family income from all sources is less than Rs. 2 lakh can avail scheme benefits.Any of the 2 family members could avail the Berojgari Bhatta Scheme benefits. He / she must be a graduate or equivalent from any recognized college in the state to take advantage of CM Yuva Sambal Yojana.At the time of filling online application form for Mukhyamantri Yuva Sambal Yojana, the candidates must be registered with the employment exchange.In addition to this, women graduates from other states married to a bonafide resident of Rajasthan are also eligible.The maximum age limit is 30 years for general category students and 35 years for reserved categories.In a single year, 1.6 lakh eligible youth would be given benefit for a maximum period of 2 years. In case there are more applicants in a year, preference would be given to the oldest of the lot.
It is important to note that all those students who are still continuing their studies after graduation are not eligible for the Mukhyamantri Yuva Sambal Yojana in Rajasthan.
List of Documents for Rajasthan Mukhyamantri Yuva Sambal Yojana
Here is the complete list of documents required for Rajasthan Berojgari Bhatta Yojana:-
Aadhaar CardRecent Passport Size PhotographMarksheet of Last Passed ExaminationAge ProofIncome CertificateResidence CertificateDisability Certificate (if any) 
Rajasthan Unemployment Allowance Amount / Duration
In the Mukhyamantri Yuva Sambal Yojana, Rajasthan govt. will provide unemployment allowance at the rate specified in the table below:-
Male CandidatesRs. 3000 per monthFemale CandidatesRs. 3500 per monthTransgendersRs. 3500 per monthRajasthan Berojgari Bhatta Amount
Duration – The state govt. will provide berojgari bhatta to selected candidates for a period of 2 years. Within this period, if an applicant gets employment or starts their own work (self employment), then assistance amount would be stopped. In case of fraud applicants, the state govt. will take strict actions as per the IPC). 
Objectives of Rajasthan Mukhyamantri Yuva Sambal Yojana 2020
In Rajasthan, the state govt. has launched Mukhyamantri Yuva Sambal Yojana to provide unemployment allowance to jobless youth. Every year, all those candidates belonging to poor families who are unable to secure employment will now get assistance from the state government. 
Education is of paramount importance in someone’s life and youths particularly work hard to get good results in examinations. But even after completion of course, some youths are unable to get suitable jobs as per their requirement which results in depression. So to prevent youth from getting depressed and to assist them, Rajasthan govt. has started Mukhyamantri Yuva Sambal Yojana. 
The assistance amount given in this scheme will enable youths to sustain their livelihood till the time they get employment. Check Scheme guidelines at http://employment.livelihoods.rajasthan.gov.in/website/CMS/ShowFile.aspx?DocID=208
To get information about departmental plans , please contact the toll free number 1800-180-6127. For more details visit the official website at http://employment.livelihoods.rajasthan.gov.in/website/index.aspx





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/jaipur/govt-issues-guidelines-for-cm-yuva-sambal-yojana/articleshow/69795577.cms
SAVE AS PDF
