
राजस्थान में नए राशन कार्ड हेतु आवेदन पत्र PDF डाउनलोड करें हिंदी में, राशन कार्ड सूची 2019 में अपना नाम शामिल करने के लिए जरुरी कागज़ात और पूरी प्रक्रिया जानें

Table of Contents

Rajasthan APL Ration Card 2019 Application Form PDF Download OnlineNFSA / AAY / BPL Ration Card Application Form RajasthanRequirements for Ration Card Form PDF Rajasthan (Offline Method)List of Documents for New Ration Card in RajasthanRajasthan Rashan Card 2019
Ration Card Form Download in Hindi Rajasthan PDF | Rajasthan Ration Card Apply Form PDF |  
Food and Civil Supplies Department of Rajasthan has released the Rajasthan Ration Card List 2019 (Village Wise). All the citizens who have made fresh registration for the Ration Card can now check their name in the Eligible List of National Food Security Act (NFSA) / APL beneficiaries. Moreover, candidates whose name does not appears in the Ration Card New List 2019 and wants to apply for name inclusion in new Ration card list (राशन कार्ड सूची) can apply in the prescribed format. 
Ration Card in Rajasthan is a necessary document for the poor people to take benefits of most government schemes. Accordingly, people can purchase rashan at subsidized rates from Ration Shops located nearby. Rajasthan Ration Card Apply Form PDF is now available for the general citizens of the state.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rajasthan govt. has made this ration card new list public to make the process of finding name easier. Now candidates can search their name in the APL BPL List. For inclusion of their name in Ration card list (राशन कार्ड सूची), people can also make new ration card form download in hindi Rajasthan pdf as given below.
Rajasthan APL Ration Card 2019 Application Form PDF Download Online
In order to make fresh application for the Above Poverty Line (APL or General Category) Ration Card in Rajasthan, all the candidates can directly download the application form through the link given below:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Download APL Ration Card Form PDF Rajasthan (in Hindi)
Here candidates can click at the “Application Form for New Ration Card in Rajasthan” link or directly click this link
The application form for the Rajasthan New Ration Card will appear as shown in the figure:-
Rajasthan Ration Card Application Form Download

NFSA / AAY / BPL Ration Card Application Form Rajasthan
All the candidates can download the ration card application form for NFSA / AAY / BPL / CBPL / SBPL / OPH beneficiaries in Rajasthan as specified below:-

Firstly visit the official website at food.raj.nic.in
At the homepage, click at the “खाद्य सुरक्षा योजना / राशन कार्ड-आवेदन फॉर्म” or directly click this link
Accordingly, candidates can click at the “ खाद्य सुरक्षा योजना (NFSA) में नाम जुडवाने हेतु आवेदन पत्र” link or directly click at Rajasthan BPL Ration Card Online Apply 2019
The Rajasthan NFSA / BPL Ration Card online application form 2019 will appear as shown below:-
Rajasthan BPL Ration Card Form PDF Download
Here candidates can fill in the complete details and submit the completed application form to the concerned authorities.

Requirements for Ration Card Form PDF Rajasthan (Offline Method)
Candidates can even apply online for ration card through e-mitra or CSC (ई मित्र / सीएससी के माध्यम से राशन कार्ड बनवाने / संशोधन हेतु फॉर्म) through the link given below :-
APL / BPL Ration Card Application Form Rajasthan Download 
As an alternative method, candidates can even apply offline for Ration Card in Rajasthan through the following process:-

All the candidates can also obtain the application form for a new Ration card from any circle office / S.D.O office.
People must posses passport sized photographs of the head of family attested by a gazetted officer / MLA / MP / Municipal Councillor. He / She must also have specified proof of residence and the surrender / deletion certificate of the previous Ration Card (if any).
In case the proof of residence is not available, then the circle FSO / S.I. / M.O. conducts spot inquiries and records the statements of 2 independent witnesses in neighbourhood.
The standard prescribed time schedule for the Ration Card preparation is generally 15 days. Although the procedure and time limit can vary from state to state.

The state govt. has also made a provision for making amendments to valid Ration Cards. 
List of Documents for New Ration Card in Rajasthan
The following documents are necessary to submit the Ration Card application form in Rajasthan:-


List of Documents


Recent Passport Size Photograph
Aadhaar Card


Previous Electricity Bills
PAN Card


Gas Connection
Bank Passbook


Caste Certificate
Income Certificate


Rajasthan govt. will issue new ration cards for all the citizens whether BPL or APL candidates. It is necessary for getting ration through the distributors at various ration shops. Furthermore, all the citizens can check their name in the Rajasthan Ration Card New List 2018 at the official website of Food and Civil Supplies Dept. of Rajasthan.
Rajasthan Rashan Card 2019
A Ration Card is an essential document issued by the state government for the purchase of essential commodities from fair price shops. There are different ration cards for Above Poverty Line (APL), Below Poverty Line (BPL) and Antyodaya families. It is a very useful document for Indian citizens as it saves money in procurement of essential commodities at a subsidized rate.
The ration card in Rajasthan could also be used as a proof of identification for other documents like Domicile Certificate, for inclusion of your name in the Electoral Rolls etc. In addition to the permanent ration cards, all the states can also issue temporary Ration cards which would remain valid for a specified number of months and are issued for relief purposes.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: food.raj.nic.in
SAVE AS PDF
