
The state government of Uttarakhand has launched Deendayal Upadhyay Sahkarita Kisan Kalyan Yojana for small & marginal farmers of the state. This is a farm loan scheme that provides loan facilities upto Rs. 1 lakh at 2% interest rates to farmers of the state. The farmers who are living in the border areas can take the benefit of the scheme.
Deendayal Upadhyay Sahkarita Kisan Kalyan Yojana was announced on the occasion of the state’s 18th Foundation Day, 9 November 2017 by the CM of Uttarakhand. The eligible farmers can return the loan within a duration of 3 years. The compounding charges will be imposed after 1 year on the farmer for Non-payment of the loan amount.
Although, this scheme will help in strengthening the rural economy along with check forced migration from the hills. This farm loan scheme will also help to improve the financial conditions of the farmers. The state government will organize several camps to distribute loan amount in the form of cheques.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Deendayal Upadhyay Sahkarita Kisan Kalyan Yojana
The state government has informed that this scheme will fulfill the vision of central government to double the farmers’ income by 2022. By using the scheme, the interested farmers can also establish small-scale agro-based units in rural areas to improve livelihood options.
On the occasion, CM distributed about 4,300 cheques among farmers. In addition, about 15,000 marginal farmers in Dehradun alone were given cheques of up to Rs. 1 lakh by the officials. The government has also distributed the cash awards of Rs. 5000 for each women police band and the Anti-Terrorist Squad.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The government has informed that they have constituted the Rural Development and Migration Commission to strengthen the rural economy. Uttarakhand is the 5th state in the country where the DBT scheme has been introduced under a centrally funded initiative. So far, the Central government has released 75 lakh crore subsidy for farmers. The Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) scheme will help the farmer to buy fertilizers. The subsidy is going directly to the bank account of the farmer.
Moreover, the farmer will get soil health cards for checking the soil of farmlands so they can use seeds, fertilizers or pesticides, as per the requirement of the soil. In addition, about 2.5 lakh people who couldn’t be covered under the Ujjwala scheme, will be covered very soon and get free cooking gas connections.
However, government is putting its efforts to generate self-employment for the people who are living in rural areas and falling under 670 panchayats of the state.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
