


Table of Contents

Revised U-Health Card Scheme – FeaturesComprehensive Health Insurance Scheme PremiumNeed for Revised U-Health Card Scheme in UttarakhandReferences
Uttarakhand Govt. is planning to start the Revised U-Health Card Scheme for all the state govt. employees. Accordingly, this scheme will provide cashless health insurance to all employees and pensioners. The entire staff will be covered under this Comprehensive Health Insurance Cover which will start from 15 August 2018.
Revised U-Health Card Scheme will also resolve the issue of delay in the payment. Govt. will also cover Out Patient Department (OPD) in this scheme so that more number of hospitals appears in the List of Empanelled Hospitals under this scheme 
U-Health Card Scheme for govt. employees was firstly launched on 25 October 2010. At that time, this health insurance scheme was optional for employees. But this time, it will be a major success with enhanced coverage. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Revised U-Health Card Scheme – Features
The important features and highlights of this scheme are as follows:-

Employee Organization demands for inclusion of OPDs Fees in this Revised U-Health Card Insurance Scheme.
All the representatives of employees will be included in the steering committee of Comprehensive Health Assurance Scheme.
Under the U Health Card Scheme, all the cardholders along with their families will get unlimited cashless medical reimbursement in the empanelled hospitals.
Revised U-Health Insurance Coverage will provide cashless benefits to all employees and pensioners in all empanelled govt. and private hospitals.
Mismanagement and other payment issues will get resolved.

Till date, there are only few empaneled hospitals in Uttarakhand. In addition, 2 more empanelled hospitals are located in National Capital Region (NCR) – Medanta Medicity Gurugram and National Heart Institute New Delhi. For all details like Bank Challan Form, Consent Forms, Deduction Head, Day Care Treatment of the existing U-Health Card Scheme – Click Here


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme Premium
Under the revised scheme, the insurance premium rates will be finalised soon. Till then, we are providing the premium rates for the existing U-Health Card Scheme in Uttarakhand. All the state govt. employees are required to pay the following premium as mentioned in the table given below:-
Uttarakhand U-Health Card Scheme Premium Rates


Grade Pay (GP) of Employees
Annual Premium


GP > Rs. 6600
Rs. 5000


GP between Rs. 4200 to Rs. 5400
Rs. 3500


GP between Rs. 1900 to Rs. 2800
Rs. 1500


GP < Rs. 1800
Rs. 700


The employees hopes that the Revised Health Insurance Scheme would ensure that there are max number of private empaneled hospitals in the scheme.
Need for Revised U-Health Card Scheme in Uttarakhand
Various employees organizations are demanding for a comprehensive health insurance cover for all employees from a long period. The Existing U-health Card Scheme was optional for employees and was also not much attractive. So, govt. employees and hospitals stays away from this scheme.
Now there is a demand of revision in the existing U-Health Card Scheme and to make it more attractive so as to empanel more number of hospitals in order to provide benefits to all staff.
A delegation of Joint Forum of Employees met the Secretary of Health and Family Welfare and discussed the scheme. The state govt. will revise U-health Card Scheme & will launch this scheme on 15 August this year.
References
— Candidates can see the guidelines through the link – U-Health Card Guidelines
— In case of any query, candidates can contact the U Health Cell – Contact Us
— For more details, click at the official website – https://www.ukhfws.org/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
