


Table of Contents

Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana (AAUY) Online Registration 2020Check Name in Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana List of BeneficiariesAtal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana App DownloadAtal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana – Packages / Rates / List of DiseasesPM Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) in Uttarakhand – Emapanelled Hospitals ListAyushman Bharat Scheme in Uttarakhand – Scheme HighlightsAtal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana Progress Report (Till 26 Dec 2019)AAUY Scheme Beneficiary Complaint Box
Uttarakhand govt. invites Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana Online Registration Form at ayushmanuttarakhand.org. Ayushman Bharat – PM Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY scheme) was launched by PM Modi on 23 September 2018 which provides facility of free treatment upto Rs. 5 lakh to around 5 lakh poor families of Uttarakhand. Now the state govt. has taken this initiative forward and launched Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana (AAUY) for which online registration forms are invited at the official website. 
AAUY Scheme would add around 18 lakh families in this PM-JAY scheme. Now the total Ayushman Bharat beneficiaries in Uttarakhand would be 23 lakh households who can avail free treatment at any govt. / private empanelled hospitals. The state govt. provides health insurance cover upto Rs. 5 lakh per family per year for secondary and tertiary care. There is no restriction on family size, age or gender and hospitalization process has been made cashless and paperless.
Latest Update – The online application process for registration & preparation of Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana Golden Cards has now been changed. The new application process is offline and its complete description is mentioned at the official website ayushmanuttarakhand.org. Please check the complete details on how to apply for AAUY and get your golden card prepared.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

In Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana, no pre-existing condition has been excluded. Till date, there are more than 171 hospitals empanelled (101 government & 74 private) under Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana (AAUY).
Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana (AAUY) Online Registration 2020
Uttarakhand has become the first state in the country which provides cashless treatment to all its citizens. The complete procedure to apply online for Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana has been specified as follows:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Visit the official website ayushmanuttarakhand.org
At the homepage, click at the “Online Registration” link or directly click this link
Afterwards, the Atal Ayushman Bharat Yojana online registration form will appear as follows:-
Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana Online Registration Form
Here candidates needs to enter their personal details including address, voter card number, ration card number, e-mail ID & mobile phone number and details of their family members.
Finally, candidates can click at the “Submit” button to complete the registration process.
Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana Golden Card

For any technical queries, candidates can contact at the integrated Ayushman Bharat Yojana helpline number at 104 / 14555.
Check Name in Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana List of Beneficiaries
All the people can now check their name in the Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana List of beneficiaries through the link given below:-
https://ayushmanuttarakhand.org/search
The family search page to find name in AAUY Scheme will appear as shown below:-
Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana List Name Find
If you’re searching with Mobile No. or Name, District Selection is Mandatory. If you’re searching with NFSA (Ration Card), Voter ID 2012, MSBY Card No. District Selection is not Mandatory. 
Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana App Download
All the beneficiaries can now download the AAUY mobile app through the link given below:-
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=kprsconsultants.aubrs&hl=en_IN
This Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana app is 2.5 MB in size available at google play store. Moreover, the AAUY app requires android version of 4.2 and up as it was last updated on 5 February 2019.
Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana – Packages / Rates / List of Diseases
All the candidates can check AAUY Scheme Packages & Rates before availing treatment at the empanelled govt. / private hospitals. There are 1350 packages covered under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme in Uttarakhand whose distribution is as follows:-


Type of Diseases
Number of Packages


Heart Disease
130


Eye Disease
42


Nose, Ear, Throat Disease
94


Bone Disease
114


Urine Disease
161


Female Disease
73


Surgical Disease
253


Neuro Surgery, Neuro Radiology & Plastic Surgery, Burn Disease
115


Dentistry
9


Pediatric Disease
156


Medical Disease
70


Cancer Disease
112


Other
21


The complete list of diseases for AAUY scheme is available at the official website and can be accessed easily.
PM Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) in Uttarakhand – Emapanelled Hospitals List
All the candidates can also check the complete list of hospitals empanelled under Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana through the link given below:-
http://ayushmanuttarakhand.org/empanelled-hospitals
The page to check the empanelled pharmacy / labs at the official website is still under construction would could be accessed at a later time.
Ayushman Bharat Scheme in Uttarakhand – Scheme Highlights
Below are the essential features and highlights of AAUY scheme:-

Health insurance cover of Rs. 5 Lakhs per family per year for secondary and tertiary care.
There is no restriction on family size, age or gender under AAUY Scheme.
All members of eligible families as present in SECC 2011 data are automatically covered under this Ayushman Bharat Yojana in Uttarakhand.
In case of hospitalization, poor people need not pay any money as this treatment is absolutely free.
All the pre-existing conditions are covered from 1st day of the policy under PM Jan Arogya Yojana. The benefit cover will include pre & post hospitalization expenses.

People can go to any public / empanelled private hospitals across the country and can avail treatment benefits under AAUY. For this treatment, beneficiaries needs to carry any prescribed ID to receive treatment at the hospital. 
Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana Progress Report (Till 26 Dec 2019)
The progress report of Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana is available till 26 December 2019 as follows:-
Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana Progress Report
This report is for the past 1 year after the launch of Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana on 26 December 2018.
AAUY Scheme Beneficiary Complaint Box
In case of any query, the candidates can make complaints at the AAUY Scheme Beneficiary Complaint Box which can be accessed through the link:-

Complaint Box Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana 
The complaint box for Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana will appear as shown below:-
AAUY Scheme Beneficiary Complaint Box

For more details, candidates can call on the helpline number 0135 – 2608646 or can send an e-mail to [email protected] Beneficiaries can also contact the integrated helpline number at 104. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
