


Table of Contents

Uttarakhand Free Laptop Scheme 2020 Apply Online FormUttarakhand Free Laptop Distribution Scheme EligibilityUttarakhand Muft Laptop Yojana Specifications
Uttarakhand government is going to start Free Laptop Distribution Scheme 2020 for students. Under this Muft Laptop Vitaran Yojana, govt. will provide free of cost laptops to meritorious students of Uttarakhand government schools who comes from week financial background. This Free Laptop Scheme would be implemented from the ongoing academic session 2019-20 & will continue for 2020-21 session. People can now check the complete apply online process, eligibility, specifications and other details of Muft Laptop Yojana in Uttarakhand. 
The Free Laptop Scheme in Uttarakhand will encourage students to secure good marks in Class 10th and 12th board exams. This UK Free Laptop Distribution Scheme will also help students in their higher studies. 
As per the education department officials, a proposal regarding the Free Laptop Scheme is already sent to CM Trivendra Singh Rawat for approval. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Uttarakhand Free Laptop Scheme 2020 Apply Online Form
Just like free laptop schemes of other state govt’s in India, the Uttarakhand state govt. may invite online application forms for Free Laptop Distribution Scheme 2020. The state govt. may invite Uttarakhand Free Laptop Scheme Registration at its official website or can launch a new dedicated portal for this purpose. As soon as the apply online form becomes public, we will update it here.
Uttarakhand Free Laptop Distribution Scheme Eligibility
All the applicants must fulfill the following eligibility criteria to become eligible for Free Laptop Scheme in Uttarakhand:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Candidate must be a permanent resident of Uttarakhand state.
He / She must be studying in class 10th and 12th and must be appearing in the upcoming board examinations.
The applicant must belong to Below Poverty Line (BPL) family.
The applicant must have secured at-least 80% marks in the board exams for 10, 12 standard.

The current year students are eligible for this scheme. Uttarakhand govt. has already sanctioned an amount of Rs. 1.5 crore for Free Laptop Scheme in UK Budget 2019-20. The state govt. has already demanded a detailed report on the number of meritorious students who may be eligible for Free Laptop Scheme. As per the government order, the state govt. will provide laptops to deserving students.
Uttarakhand Muft Laptop Yojana Specifications
All the laptops to be given to students would come up with the following specifications:-

Recent version of Windows
2 GB Random Access Memory (RAM)
Pre loaded operating system of dual booting
14 inch LED screen with high resolution display.

The idea of free laptop scheme was mooted by then chief minister Harish Rawat during 2017 elections. Later, new elected CM Trivendra Singh Rawat has also decided to provide free laptops to students. Previously, Samajwadi Party govt. in Uttar Pradesh has distributed free laptops to UP board students. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/dehradun/govt-to-give-free-laptops-to-students-who-fare-well-in-board-exams/articleshow/72929264.cms
SAVE AS PDF
