
उत्तराखण्ड राशन कार्ड ऑनलाइन आवेदन पत्र (एप्लिकेशन फॉर्म) PDF फॉर्मेट में डाउनलोड करें fcs.uk.gov.in पर, जानिए नए / प्रतिलिपि राशन कार्ड बनवाने की क्या है प्रक्रिया

Table of Contents

Uttarakhand Ration Card Online Application Form DownloadIssuance of New Ration Card in UttarakhandAddition / Deletion / Modification of Member in Ration Card UttarakhandApply Online for Renewal or Duplicate Ration Card in UttarakhandRation Card Transfer / Surrender in Uttarakhand
Uttarakhand Ration Card Online Apply | Uttarakhand Ration Card Online Form | Ration Card Online Application Uttarakhand | Uttarakhand Ration Card Online Download | Ration Card Form Download Uttarakhand
Food and Civil Supplies Department of Uttarakhand has released the district wise Uttarakhand Ration Card New List 2019 online at fcs.uk.gov.in (उत्तराखंड राशन कार्ड सूची ऑनलाइन). All the citizens who had previously filled Ration Card Online Application Uttarakhand can now check their name online or by downloading the list of eligible National Food Security Act (NFSA) beneficiaries. Ration Card Form Download Uttarakhand is now available, people can now apply online, perform form download online and submit the filled in online form to get a new Ration Card.
Uttarkhand govt. has made this ration card new list 2019 public in order to make the process of finding name of ration card beneficiaries easier. People can also find their name online in the NFSA eligible beneficiaries list 2019. In case the name of beneficiary is not included in the Ration Card List, then candidates can perform Uttarakhand Ration Card Online Form Download to apply online.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Ration Card is an essential document for the APL / BPL families in Uttarakhand to take benefits of most govt. schemes. It is important to note that ration card holders only can purchase Rashan at subsidized rates from Ration Shops located nearby.
Uttarakhand Ration Card Online Application Form Download
Below is the complete procedure to apply online for new Ration Card in Uttarakhand:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Firstly visit the official website at fcs.uk.gov.in
At the homepage, click at the “Downloads” tab on the left side of the page or directly click at Uttarakhand Ration Card Online Download
Here candidates can click at the “Ration Card Application Form” link.
Direct Link – Uttarakhand Ration Card Online Form
The Ration Card Online Application Uttarakhand will appear as shown below:-
Ration Card Form Download Uttarakhand
Here candidates can fill in all the details correctly and submit it to the concerned authorities to get a new ration card.

Issuance of New Ration Card in Uttarakhand
All the candidates must follow the procedure given below to get new ration card in Uttarakhand which can be checked using the link:-
Issuance of New Ration Card Uttarakhand
There is separate procedure for urban and rural people to apply online for new ration card in Uttarakhand.
Addition / Deletion / Modification of Member in Ration Card Uttarakhand
The modification in Ration Card could be addition of new member, deletion of existing member and modification of details in Ration Card Uttarakhand. This could be done using the link given below:-
Ration Card Modification Uttarakhand 
Apply Online for Renewal or Duplicate Ration Card in Uttarakhand
All the people must apply online for renewal or duplicate ration card as mentioned in the process below, which can be checked using the link:-
Renewal Duplicate Ration Card Uttarakhand 
Ration Card Transfer / Surrender in Uttarakhand
People must follow the below mentioned process for ration card transfer in Uttarakhand:-
Ration Card Transfer Uttarakhand
The list of documents to be submitted is also mentioned in the links which we have already provided. For more details, visit the official website at http://fcs.uk.gov.in/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: fcs.uk.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
