
Uttarakhand govt. has launched Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana (AAUY) on the 94th birth anniversary of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Under this PMJAY Scheme in Uttarakhand, all the resident families will get an health insurance coverage of Rs. 5 lakh p.a. People can now avail cashless and paperless treatment (secondary & tertiary hospitalization) in any govt. or private empanelled hospitals or Health and Wellness Centers. 
The state govt. has decided to implement Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana (AAUY) in a trust based mode instead of involving insurance companies. Training of Pradhan Mantri Arogya Mitras (PMAM) has also been started in the state.
Latest Update – Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana Online Registration / Application Form



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Check Uttarakhand Ayushman Bharat List of Hospitals to find Ayushman Bharat empanelled hospitals.
All the Rural and Urban beneficiaries of Uttarakhand can claim insurance benefits under AB-NHPM. All the recipients of Ayushman Family Cards can avail scheme benefits. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana (AAUY) – Complete Details
Ayushman Bharat Scheme in Uttarakhand has been launched to ensure that health insurance benefits are extended to every family in the state. The primary objective of Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana is that no one is left out for health treatment on the basis of their monthly income, age, size of family. PM Jan Arogya Yojana was launched across the country on 25 September 2018. It is observed that many people are forced to sell their land or jewellery to avail good treatment but following the launch of the scheme, this would be a thing of the past.
The state govt. has already signed Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the National health Agency to provide insurance coverage of upto Rs. 5 lakhs. People will be entitled to get treatment at NHPM Package rates. Beneficiaries will get Health Insurance Coverage through listed hospitals. Around 2.6 lakh government employees, officers, retired personnel & their dependents, journalists are expected to get benefits of this scheme.
All the state govt. employees can avail the treatment under Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) outside the state as well. Govt. has also fixed an annual contribution from the employees to avail Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana benefits. 
After the approval of cabinet, approx. 1350 diseases and health ailments have been included under the risk cover. Till date, 99 govt. hospitals and 66 private hospitals have been empaneled under this scheme to which govt. will grant incentives. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
