
Uttarakhand govt. has lauched Super 100 campaign to provide free coaching for engineering and medical competitive examinations to meritorious girl students in the state. Under this free coaching scheme for girls, govt. will select 100 meritorious girls from under privileged sections of society and will assist them in IIT & medical exam preparations. 
This free coaching to girl students would enable them to score good marks in competitive entrance exams for engineering and medical courses. This programme has been launched on the lines of the “Super 30” programme founded by Mr. Anand kumar in Bihar. 
This programme was launched by the education minister on 1 January 2019 at Rajiv gandhi Navodaya Vidyalaya, Nanurkherda, Dehradun.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Uttarakhand Super 100 Free Coaching Scheme for Girl Students
The state govt. of Uttarakhand has launched Super 100 Campaign which is a free coaching scheme for meritorious girl students. Under this Super 100 free coaching scheme, govt. will provide 100 hour free coaching for Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and Combined Pre Medical Test (CPMT) to one meritorious girl student from each of 95 blocks of the state. 
Girls who are currently studying in 12th standard have been shortlisted for free engineering and medical examinations coaching on the basis of marks secured in class 10th. All the selected girls would get tuition for the courses of their choices. Moreover, all the selected students would get free accommodation facilities and food at the Navodaya Vidyalaya.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

In addition to this, the state govt. has selected the teachers who are going with the girls in the school premises. On completion of the 100 hour course, govt. will again shortlist the girl students for year long training. This training is not only for those students who wants to crack IIT and medical examinations but is for those students who wants to make career in engineering and medical fields.
Uttarakhand Super 100 Programme Meritorious Girl Students
In the previous academic year 2018, the state govt. has launched Super 30 programme for the meritorious students of the state. Out of these, around 28 students got selected in reputed institutions like IITs and NITs. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
