
The state government of Goa has launched Cyberage Scheme 2017-18 for the students of class XI. On the occasion of Children’s day, the government has distributed the laptops to the 11th class students who had applied for the scheme. The interested student can apply for the scheme by going to the official website at education.goa.gov.in.
This Cyberage Scheme is being implemented in the state since 2002 by the state education board. The students studying in Class XI in government aided and unaided Higher Secondary Schools can apply for this scheme. However, the application form for applying for the scheme is still open.
The interested and eligible student can download the application form of cyberage student scheme before 5 December 2017 (4:30 p.m) from the official website of Goa Education department at education.goa.gov.in.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Download Application Form of Cyberage Student Scheme
Below given are the steps to download the application form of the cyberage laptop distribution scheme

Visit the official website at education.goa.gov.in.
Now, click the “Orders and Circulars” link present on the homepage or directly click this link.
Students can apply according to their respective schools whether government aided or unaided higher Secondary schools.
On this page, students can read the instructions as per requirement of their school and download the attached Application Form.
Afterward, the student can take a printout of the application form and fill all the details in the application form.
After completing the application format along with the required document, submit it to the Directorate of Education, Planning Section, Computer Cell.

Below given is the direct link to download the application form with the instructions
Circular for Govt. / Govt. Aided Hr. Sec. Schools along with Application Form
Circular for Recognized Un-aided Hr. Sec. Schools along with Application Form


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Below is the format of Cyberage student scheme 2017-18 application form
Cyberage Student Scheme 2017-18 Application Form for Aided Hr. Sec. Schools
Since its launch, the Cyberage scheme has been utilized to make students more tech-savvy and preparing them for the competitive world. The students studying in the subjects including Arts, Commerce, Science and Vocational studies discipline can apply to take the benefit of the scheme.
Cyberage Scheme Application Form Fees & Eligibility Criteria
Registration fees for cyberage laptop distribution scheme and eligibility criteria is given below

The laptop will be given only to the students studying in class XI in govt. aided and un-aided Higher Secondary Schools.
The student should be admitted in the current academic year.
The students who already took the benefit of this scheme will not be eligible to apply.
The student can apply for the scheme by filling the application form through the name of their respective school authority to the Directorate of Education.
The application fees for govt. and govt. aided higher secondary schools is Rs. 1000.
The recognized un – aided higher secondary schools to have submitted Rs. 2000 as registration fees.

Moreover, the students must submit the required documents along with the application form to the Directorate of Education, Planning Section, Computer Cell latest by 5 December 2017 (4:30 evening). To get more information about the scheme visit the official website at education.goa.gov.in





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
