
गोवा राशन कार्ड नयी लिस्ट (जिला वार) 2019-2020 डाउनलोड करें आधिकारिक वेबसाइट goacivilsupplies.gov.in पर, ऑनलाइन APL / BPL / NFSA परिवारों की राशन कार्ड सूची में अपना नाम खोजें

Table of Contents

Goa Ration Card List 2019-2020 (District Wise) Download OnlineHow to Download Goa Ration Card Application Forms OnlineWhat is the Eligibility Criteria for Goa Ration CardList of Documents Required for New Ration Card in GoaHow To Know Your Ration EntitlementAn Overview of Goa Ration CardKerala Ration Card – ePDS Helpline
Department of Civil Supplies has released the district wise Goa Ration Card List 2019-2020 online at goacivilsupplies.gov.in (गोवा राशन कार्ड सूची ऑनलाइन). All the citizens who had previously filled in Goa Ration Card Application Form for name inclusion can now check their name online in APL / BPL / NFSA Goa Ration Card List 2019-2020. People can also download the list of eligible National Food Security Act (NFSA) beneficiaries. EPDS Goa BPL / NFSA Ration Card New List 2020 is now available online.
Goa govt. has made new ration card list 2019-2020 public in order to make process of finding beneficiaries name in BPL ration card list easier. People can also find their name online in the EPDS Goa NFSA Ration Card List. People can now even find their name in the district wise ration card list for below poverty line (BPL) / Antyodaya beneficiaries.
NFSA / BPL Ration Card in Goa is an essential document for the APL / BPL people to take benefits of most govt. schemes. It is important to note that ration card holders only can purchase Ration at subsidized rates from Ration Shops located nearby. Moreover, ration card holders can only take benefits of National Food Security Scheme – NFSA (AAY + PHH).



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Goa Ration Card List 2019-2020 (District Wise) Download Online
All the candidates who had previously applied for the new ration card now check their name in Goa New ration card list 2020 for NFSA beneficiaries. The district wise Goa Ration Card List 2019-2020 is available at the official website at goacivilsupplies.gov.in. Moreover, people can directly download the Ration Card New List through the link given below:-

At the homepage, click at the “Know Your Ration Card” or “FPS Wise Ration Card Details” link under ‘E-Citizen’ tab present in the main menu. Previously, the Goa ration card list district wise was available through the Know Your Ration Card (District Wise) link which is not present now. However, you can check the previous ration card list opening process here.
On clicking earlier Know your Ration Card (district wise) link, the district wise summary page of Goa Ration Card appear as shown below:-
Goa Ration Card List District Wise
At this page, people had to click at the “District Name” namely North Goa, South Goa to open the page as shown below:-
Goa New Ration Card List Taluka Wise
Here click at the “Taluka Name” to open the village wise summary of ration card in Goa as shown below:-
Goa BPL APL AAY Ration Card List Download
Here click at the “Village name” to open the FPS wise Goa Ration Card List Online as below:-
Goa Ration Card List Online FPS Wise
Here click at the “Unique RC ID” to open the EPDS Goa NFSA Ration Card List as below:-
EPDS Goa NFSA Ration Card List

People can even download and take a printout of Rashan Card and keep it for any future reference. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

How to Download Goa Ration Card Application Forms Online
Here is how you can download Goa Ration Cards online application forms:-
Visit the same official website at http://goacivilsupplies.gov.in/. Then click at the “Download Forms” link under ‘Quick Links‘ sections to open the application forms download page in Goa. 
Application Fees
There is no application form filling fee and there is no requirement to pay any fees while applying online for new ration card in Goa. However, applicants can collect their ration cards from the concerned authorities on making a payment of Rs. 5 per copy.
Timelines for Issuing Ration Card in Goa
All the applicants can submit the complete Goa Ration Card online application form and new ration cards would be issued within 15 days of submission of application. However in certain cases, 1 month time is required to issue a new ration card.
Linking of Aadhaar Card with Ration Card
People can now link their Unique Identification Number or Aadhaar Card with their ration card. This can be done online by visiting the official portal and then clicking at the “Link to UID” link.
What is the Eligibility Criteria for Goa Ration Card
All the applicants must meet the basic eligibility criteria to get a new ration card in Goa:-
a) Applicants who are permanent resident of Goa can apply.
b) Households not already having ration card in the state are eligible.
c) Newly married couples can apply for new ration card.
d) Citizens having temporary ration cards whose date has been expired are eligible.
It is important to note that the issue of new ration card in Goa would be based on the household income as well as economic conditions of the family.
List of Documents Required for New Ration Card in Goa
Below is the complete list of documents required to apply online for new ration card in Goa:-

Residential proof such as Voter ID, Driving License, Aadhaar Card (Scanned Copy)
Age Certificate (Scanned Copy)
Caste Certificate (Scanned Copy)
Identity Proof like Voter ID, PAN Card, Driving Licence, Aadhar Card (Scanned Copy)
Income proof of the family (Scanned Copy)
Recent Passport Size Photograph of the applicant
Valid Mobile Number / E-mail ID
Previous Electricity Bills
Bank Passbook
Gas Connection Details
Self Declaration and Certificate issued by Ward Councillor/ Pradhan
Tenancy Agreement (if applicable)

In case of non-possession of above mentioned documents, applications for new ration cards are liable to get rejected.
How To Know Your Ration Entitlement
People can now check their Goa Ration entitlement online at the same official website. At the homepage, scroll over the “E-Citizen” tab and then click at the “Know Your Ration Entitlement” link to open the page as shown below:-
Know Your Ration Entitlement Goa 
Here candidates can select allocation type, month, district, tfso, year, dfso, fps and click at “Search” button to know your entitlement of ration.
An Overview of Goa Ration Card
Here is an overview of Goa Ration Card which is mentioned in the table below:-


Service Type
Ration Card


State Name
Goa


Article Category
List / Status / Application Form


Concerned Department
Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department, Govt. of Goa


Applicable Year
2020


Types of Ration Cards
AAY, PHH


Mode of Checking Status / List / Application
Online


Official Portal
goacivilsupplies.gov.in


Kerala Ration Card – ePDS Helpline
Any state resident who need any kind of help about the ration card or ration distribution can contact the ePDS helpline number
Helpline number: 1967
Toll Free Number: 18002330022
Official Website: http://goacivilsupplies.gov.in/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: goacivilsupplies.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
