
गोवा राशन कार्ड ऑनलाइन आवेदन पत्र भरें goa.gov.in पर और राशन कार्ड एप्लीकेशन फॉर्म PDF डाउनलोड करें, जरुरी दस्तावेजों की सूचि देखें और पात्रता जानें

Table of Contents

Application for Inclusion of Name in Ration Card GoaDocuments Required Ration Card GoaGoa Ration Card Types – APL / BPL / AAYEligibility Criteria for New Ration Card in GoaBenefits of Applying Online for Ration Card in Goa
Application for Inclusion of Name in Ration Card Goa | Documents Required Ration Card Goa | How to Apply for New Ration Card in Goa | Application Letter for Ration Card in Goa
Goa govt. is inviting Goa Ration Card online application form at goa.gov.in. People can now download Application Letter for Ration Card in Goa in PDF format at official website. All those people whose name does not appears in the Goa Ration Card List 2019 can now check documents required and how to apply for new ration card in Goa. Moreover, people can also track status of Application for Inclusion of Name in Ration Card Goa.
All the candidates can check the process of how to apply for ration card online in Goa by filling Annexure H pdf. In addition to this, people can perform Goa Ration Card Form PDF download and submit it to the concerned authorities to get their name included in the Goa Ration Card Data and thus in the new Ration Card List.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rashan Card is an essential document issued by ePDS department in Goa to avail benefits of most of the state sponsored government schemes. Also, people can get rashan at subsidized rates through these ration cards from fair price shops (FPS) located nearby.
Application for Inclusion of Name in Ration Card Goa
Below is the complete process on how to apply for new ration card in Goa:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Step 1 – The applicant should apply on plain paper along with the prescribed Declaration Form (Annexure H) and required documents to the Mamlatdar of the concerned Taluka in Goa. The copy of the Declaration Form (Annexure H) can be downloaded using the link – How to Apply for New Ration Card in Goa which will appear as shown below:-
Application Letter for Ration Card in Goa
Step 2 – All the applicants are required to enclose their cancellation certificate which is to be obtained from the concerned Taluka Mamlatdar where earlier ration card was made. If the applicants finds it difficult to produce their cancellation certificate, then he / she can apply along with a photograph and an affidavit and their family members if any do not hold ration card in Goa or anywhere in India.
Step 3 – Finally, the application form shall be endorsed to the concerned Talathi for inquiry and report purposes.

Important – For detailed information on the ration card procedure, click at the link – How To Apply for Ration Card Online in Goa. The new ration card in Goa would be issued by the concerned authority to the applicant within 7 days from the date of application.
Documents Required Ration Card Goa
Here we are providing you the complete list of documents required while applying for a ration card in the state of Goa:-


Address Proof
Recent passport size photograph of family members


An affidavit to prove that applicant is not holding any ration card previously
Aadhar Card


Voter ID Card
Income Certificate


Driving License
Bank passbook details.


Goa Ration Card Types – APL / BPL / AAY
There are 3 kind of Ration Card which are currently existing in the state of Goa:-

APL Ration Card – Above Poverty Line (APL) type of ration cards are provided to those people which have an income of more than as specified in the poverty line index.
BPL Ration Card – Below Poverty Line (BPL) type of ration cards are issued to those families having annual income less than that specified in the poverty line index.
AAY Ration Cards – Antyodaya Anna Yojana Cards are provided to those families which satisfies certain special conditions. AAY cards allows a family to get the highest level of subsidy rates.

Eligibility Criteria for New Ration Card in Goa
To obtain a new ration card in Goa, the applicants must fulfill the following eligibility criteria:-
— All the applicants and their family member must be a permanent resident of Goa.
— The applicant must be at-least 18 years of age to apply online for new ration card in Goa.
— Each applicant should be the head of the family.
— Moreover, applicant must not possess ration card in any other state.
Benefits of Applying Online for Ration Card in Goa
Here are the following benefits of obtaining ration card in the Goa state:-
— Ration card in Goa enables people to purchase grains and fuel from Public Distribution System (PDS) shops at subsidized rates.
— Goa Ration Card can also get used as authoritative document such as driving licence, voter ID card and other reports.
— It could also be used as one of the documents to obtain death and birth certificate from the state government authorities.
Ration card is a legal document which every state government in India provides to residents to purchase subsidized food commodities such as wheat, rice, kerosene and LPG. The Department of Civil Supplies & Consumer Affairs in Goa has the responsibility to issue ration card to its residents. Ration card can also serve as primary identity of a resident’s name, age, and nationality. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: goa.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
