


Table of Contents

Objective of Goa Yuva Samvad YojanaDetails of Goa Yuva Samvad YojanaApply for SIM Card under Goa Yuva Samvad Yojana
Goa Government has launched a new scheme named as Goa Yuva Samvad Yojana or Digit Youth Initiative Scheme from Monday, 5th December. The state government under the scheme will provide free 3G data and talktime to youth of the state.
Objective of Goa Yuva Samvad Yojana
The main objective of the ambitious Goa Yuva Samvad Yojana is to enable the youth to connect digitally and transform the state into a digitally empowered society. The scheme is a part of central government’s flagship Digital India initiative.
LATEST UPDATE: The scheme has been discontinued by state government from 30th June 2017



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

One of the largest cellular operator, Vodafone, will be the official partner for the implementation of the scheme in the state.
Details of Goa Yuva Samvad Yojana

Under the scheme, the state government would provide free 3GB 3G internet data and a talktime of 100 minutes per month.
New 3G enabled SIM cards will be issued for free to 1.25 Lakh youth between the age of 16 to 30 Years across the state.
If a candidate is found to be misusing the scheme benefits, services on his/her number will be discontinued.
The scheme will be implemented by the Goa Electronic Ltd.
The scheme will benefit only those between the age of 16-30 years and are eligible for the scheme as per the criteria.
The government will launch a portal where the notifications and information about the Goa Yuva Samvad Yojana will be provided.

Apply for SIM Card under Goa Yuva Samvad Yojana
The eligible applicants can apply for the new SIM card under the scheme by presenting their documents such as AADHAR card (mandatory) or the Voter ID card. Along with the application, the applicants also needed to provide at least one passport size photograph.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The exact procedure of application for Goa Yuva Samvad Yojana is not revealed yet, but expected soon since the scheme is officially launched.
Quick Details of Goa Yuva Samvad Yojana



Quick Facts
Detailed Information


Name of the Scheme
Goa Yuva Samvad Yojana


Launch Date
05 December 2016


Objective
Digitally Empower the Youth of the State


Beneficiaries of the scheme
1.25 Lakh Youth between age of 16-30 Years


What is provided under the scheme
Free 3GB 3G internet and 100 Minute talktime per month (Free SIM Card)


Official telecom operator partner
Vodafone


Implementing agency
Goa Electronics Ltd.


Scheme to remain active for
3 Years








(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
