
The state government of Goa has launched a mobile application Jai Kisaan App for the welfare of farmers community. This app will help to collect the database of farmers along with other initiatives including soil testing, health cards of Deen Dayal Swasthya Seva Yojana (DDSSY). This application was designed by the Adventz youth for tomorrow talent-search fest that has been organized for school children. 
The Adventz group is a pollution free and no problem company over the last two decades. This company is focusing on ensuring that the Goa state becomes self-sufficient in horticulture by harnessing the potential of Goa. The chief minister of Goa has launched Jai Kisaan app as a part of the Digital India initiative.
Salient Feature of Jai Kisaan App
Below given the highlights and feature of this application.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


The farmer will get immense information regarding different crops according to the season.
The farmer can interact with the expert through the call and SMS by using the app.
In addition, farmers can place an order by using the app in case the product is available. However, farmers will also get the information about the product.
This app also provides the information regarding the Weather with upcoming 5 days forecast.
On the app, the farmer will get the information about the price of the commodities and Mandis in the state.
By using the app, farmers will get the fertilizer Calculator facility. They can set optimal cost for the need of fertilizers for targeted yields.
The farmer will also get the experiences of various other farmers on the usage of different Agri products.
Moreover, the farmer will get the access to non-agricultural fields like mobile security and financial services through the Jai Kissan app.

Below given the screenshot and link to Mobile Jai Kisaan App
Jai Kisaan App Features
Download Jai Kisaan App


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Jai Kisaan app is one stop solution for farmers that provides various information about cultivation, crop nutrition, crop protection, seeds etc. Through the app, the Adventz company will ensure responsibility and accountability for the inclusive growth of farmers.
Jai Kisaan app is free of cost service for the farmer’s community which provides necessary information about Agri-products, services, and technology.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
