


Table of Contents

Modified Goa Laadli Laxmi Scheme 2019 – Complete Details1. Goa Laadli Laxmi Scheme Online Application Form 20192. Goa Ladli Laxmi Scheme Eligibility / Income Limit ModifiedGoa Ladli Lakshmi Scheme Background
Goa government has issued a notification for the Modified Laadli Laxmi Scheme on 8th March 2019. The new eligibility condition for income limit of girl’s parents has been introduced. Under Ladli Lakshmi Scheme in Goa, the state govt. provides gift of Rs. 1 lakh to every gaon (village) girl on the occasion of their marriage. Interested brides (girls) or their parents can fill the Goa Ladli Laxmi Scheme Online Application Form to avail scheme benefits.
Laadli Laxmi Scheme in Goa is applicable to all the girls between 18 & 40 years of age. Laadli Lakshmi Scheme benefits could be availed by brides whose marriage registration has been done on 1 April 2012 or after. The state govt. will bear marriage expenses of all those brides whose marriage has been registered and falls in the above mentioned age group. 
The Ladli Laxmi Scheme benefits would be provided to each eligible girl in the state without taking into consideration about caste, creed, religion. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Modified Goa Laadli Laxmi Scheme 2019 – Complete Details
Laadli Laxmi Scheme in Goa aims to erase the general perception that birth of a girl in the family is a burden on her parents which leads to a tendency of female foeticide. So to curb this menace, the state govt. has launched Ladli Laxmi Scheme. The complete details of the modified scheme are as follows:-
1. Goa Laadli Laxmi Scheme Online Application Form 2019
All the interested girls or their parents can fill the Goa Laadli Laxmi Scheme Online Application Form to avail the scheme benefits through the link given below:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Goa Laadli Laxmi Scheme Application Procedure
The Goa Ladli Laxmi Scheme Online Application Form will appear as shown below:-
Goa Laadli Laxmi Scheme Online Application Form

2. Goa Ladli Laxmi Scheme Eligibility / Income Limit Modified
Previously, financial status of parents of the girls was not taken into account but as per the modified Laadli Laxmi Scheme guidelines, the income of the parents of the girls will be taken into account. The new condition states that the fixed annual income limit of girl’s parents must not exceed Rs. 8 lakh per annum. This condition is now made applicable to all the girls who are born either in the state or outside the state. 
Goa Ladli Lakshmi Scheme Background
Goa government has made amendment in the Laadli Laxmi Scheme to extend its benefit to the daughters of the state or central govt. employees. All the employees must produce their service certificate of 25 years issued by HOD (head of dept.). The beneficiary girl must be born in Goa and must have studied upto Class 10th in Goa.
The Laadli Lakshmi Scheme in Goa to give Rs. 1 lakh to girls above 18 years of age to meet their marriage expenses was firstly implemented in FY 2012. The main objective of Ladli Laxmi Scheme in Goa aims to empower girls to meet their educational and other expenses on attaining the 18 years of age. Furthermore, this scheme will improve the female sex ratio in the entire state of Goa.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: ladlilaxmi.weebly.com
SAVE AS PDF
