
Goa Government is soon planning to invite applications under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana demand survey for providing affordable housing to the urban poor in the state. The state government is planning to launch the demand survey for PM Awas Yojana in association with Hyderabad based Regional Center of Urban and Environmental Studies (RCUES).
The Goa government has appointed Hyderabad RCUES for conducting survey and preparing the action plan and annual implementation plan for housing for all. The government would cover all 14 urban local bodies under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana demand survey.
Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana demand survey will be carried out by the state government to know the exact number of houses to be built in the available land resources. The demand survey application forms will help state government identify the homeless families in the state.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Goa State Urban Development Agency in association with urban local bodies will prepare the action plan for implementing the housing for all scheme in the state. As per the report prepared by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation, the total demand for urban housing in Goa is estimated at 60,000.
Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana Demand Survey Application Forms
The government is still working on the contours of the scheme and will come out the with the application process soon. It is not clear if the applications will be invited through online or offline mode. Once the demand survey is launched, the applications forms would be available either to be filled online or can be downloaded to take a print and submit offline.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The complete details about the Goa PMAY application forms would be available once the demand survey is launched.
Under the centrally sponsored “Housing for All by 2022” mission which is named as Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, the government is providing financial assistance to EWS, LIG and MIG categories under different components. The government is providing subsidy of up to Rs. 2.30 Lakh on home loans under PMAY for purchase of house or new construction or expansion.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
