
Meghalaya government has approved the 4th phase of Megha Health Insurance Scheme (MHIS IV). Under this scheme, people will now get an enhanced insurance coverage of Rs. 5 lakhs (previously Rs. 2.8 lakh). Moreover, this amount will now include all investigations and tests necessary for treatment. This fourth phase is in convergence with Central Government scheme of Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Swasthya Suraksha Mission (PMRSSM). 
Megha Health Insurance Scheme (MHIS IV) will provide Health Insurance to 8.8 lakh families in the state. In this fourth phase, now all the family members will get health insurance benefits unlike previous phase, where only upto 5 members of family were to be insured. 
Latest Update – Check Ayushman Bharat List of Private / Govt. Hospitals to find Ayushman Bharat empanelled hospitals.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY)  – Complete Details
All the families in the Meghalaya state would now be covered under this MHIS 4th phase. So, govt. might not invite fresh enrollment for this phase of Megha Health Insurance Scheme.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Megha Health Insurance Scheme (MHIS IV) in Meghalaya
The important features and highlights of MHIS 4th phase are as follows:-

Meghalaya Health Insurance Scheme (MHIS), originally launched in December 2012, is all set to enter the 4th phase.
This 4th phase will be launched in convergence with Ayushman Bharat Yojana – PMRSSM
MHIS is a Universal Health Insurance Scheme to provide health insurance to all persons that are resident of the state.
Insurance coverage under MHIS is increased to Rs. 5 lakh from previous Rs. 2.8 lakh. Now the insurance amount is Rs. 5 lakh per family per year for secondary and tertiary hospitalisation,
However, state govt. and central govt. employees are excluded from this scheme.
Meghalaya govt. has launched this scheme in the FY 2012 to provide financial assistance to all the citizens at the time of hospitalisation and reduce out-of-pocket expenses of residents.
Till date, more claims worth Rs. 70 crore has already been given under MHIS III with more than 1 lakh patients taking advantage of medical treatment.
It is important to note that, 100% hospitals in the state are now included in MHIS Scheme.

List of empaneled hospitals, claim status, package rates and more information about the Megha Health Insurance Scheme can be found on the official website at http://mhis.nic.in





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
