
Meghalaya govt. has launched the official portal for Employees State Insurance (ESI) Scheme. Under ESI scheme, labour department provides Social Security and Medical Care Services to all ESI Beneficiaries of the State. But some of labourers who are also the marginalize sections of society are not aware of ESIC benefits. So, state govt. has launched this new ESI Scheme Portal which can be accessed at megesis.nic.in
There is a need to make people aware and disseminate information on Employees State Insurance Scheme (ESIS). This is a multi dimensional social security scheme for the welfare of labour class and weaker sections of society. 
People under ESIS Meghalaya Scheme can avail two types of benefits – Cash Benefits & Medical Benefits. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Meghalaya Employees State Insurance (ESI) Scheme – Application Form
To avail the ESI Scheme benefits, candidates needs to download the application forms and submit it to the concerned authority. Below is the complete procedure to download the application form online:-

Firstly visit the official ESI Scheme portal at http://megesis.nic.in
At homepage, click at the “Download Forms” option present in the header or directly click at ESI Scheme Application Form Download (PDF)
There are 2 types of downloadable forms – Reimbursement Form and Essential Certificate. Click at their respective links to download the ESI Scheme forms.
Meghalaya ESI Scheme Reimbursement Form will appear as follows:-
Meghalaya ESI Scheme Reimbursement Form
Meghalaya ESIS Essential Certificate Form will appear as follows:-
Meghalaya ESIS Essential Certificate Download

The Employees State Insurance Scheme (ESIS) Meghalaya was implemented from September 1980 in Shillong area and was extended to Byrnihat in May 2005.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Meghalaya ESIS Scheme Cash & Medical Benefits
Under ESIS Scheme, labourers are entitled for 2 types of benefits – Cash & Medical Benefits. Cash benefits comprises of the following things:-

Sickness Benefits
Extended Sickness Benefit
Enhanced Sickness Benefit
Maternity Benefit
Dependent Benefit
Disablement Benefit
Funeral Benefits
All these benefits are administered by Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) through their local offices in Shillong and Byrnihat.

Medical Benefits is provided to Insured Persons through Dispensaries setup by the State Government. There are 361 establishment covered under Shillong ESI Dispensary and 132 establishment covered under Byrnihat. The beneficiaries will get reasonable medical, surgical and obstetric treatment. This treatment would be provided as per the live list made by the Regional Office ESI Corporation.
Any Insured person along with his family members can avail medical benefits. There is no ceiling on expenditure of treatment. Medical care will also provided to retired and permanently disabled Insured Persons or their spouses. For this medical care, people will have to make a payment of Rs. 120 as annual premium. For more details, access the official portal – http://megesis.nic.in/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
