


Table of Contents

MHIS List of BeneficiariesList of Hospitals Under Megha Health Insurance SchemeMHIS Smart CardPublic Grievance and HelplineHighlights of Megha Health Insurance Scheme (MHIS)
Since 15th December 2012, the Megha Health Insurance Scheme (MHIS) is being implemented across the state of Meghalaya by the government. The objective of the scheme is to provide financial aid to all the citizens of the state at the time of hospitalization. The policy period of insurance is only one year but it can be renewed by making payment of the insurance premium.
The state government is providing a universal health insurance to all citizens of the State under Megha Health Insurance Scheme (MHIS). All the citizens can enroll in the scheme but they have to pay some nominal amount as the enrollment fee to avail the scheme benefits. This scheme is being implemented through New India Assurance Company Ltd.
The state government under the phase 3 of Megha Health Insurance Scheme has been increased to Rs. 2,80,000 for up to 5 members of the family on floater basis. The maximum one time hospitalization for critical care has also been increased to Rs 250000 from Rs 170000. The enrollment fee for MHIS phase 3 is Rs. 50 Rupees and does not have any age limit. The smart cards issued under the scheme can be used to avail free and cashless treatment at all government hospitals and empaneled private health institutions.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

MHIS List of Beneficiaries
There are about 9 Lakh beneficiaries under the scheme who have enrolled themselves to take the insurance benefits. The complete list of beneficiaries of MHIS is not available for public download, however one can check his/her name in the beneficiary list at the official website of Megha Health Insurance Scheme at below link.
https://mhis.org.in/#name-search-modal


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The candidates can check his/her name in the beneficiary list by entering full name of head of the family or by using the URN number along with the block and village.
District Wise enrollment data is available at https://mhis.org.in/enrolment and claims data at https://mhis.org.in/claims.
List of Hospitals Under Megha Health Insurance Scheme
The detailed list of government and empaneled hospitals is available on the official website at mhis.org.in. The state government has enlisted a total of 165 government and private health centers within the state and 30 outside the state. The complete list of MHIS hospitals can be viewed at the following link.
MHIS List of Hospitals
The empaneled MHIS hospitals which are located in other states can be checked be clicking the “Outside Meghalaya” button on the top of the screen.
MHIS Smart Card
Smart cards are issued to every beneficiary family under the scheme to avail free and cashless treatments under the scheme. However, if anyone has lost his/her smart card, it can be re-issued by the district kiosk.
The list of all the district kiosks is available at below link.
List of District Kiosks
Modification of smart cards at these kiosks; whereby a name of a family member can be added to a smart card if the Beneficiary did not enroll themselves at the time of enrollment.
Public Grievance and Helpline
The complaints and grievances by the scheme beneficiaries can be made online at this link or contact at the phone numbers of respective district grievance redressal committee. The phone numbers are also available at the same link.
The status of grievance can also be checked online on the same link on mhis.org.in.
Highlights of Megha Health Insurance Scheme (MHIS)
Below are some of the main highlights of MHIS

In first and second phase, the government provided insurance coverage of Rs. 1,60,000 to each enrolled beneficiary family for an enrollment fee of Rs. 31 per annum.
In the third phase, the government is providing insurance coverage of Rs. 2,80,000 for enrollment fee of Rs. 50 per annum for up to 5 members of a family on a floater basis.
Senior citizens belonging to BPL and NREGA category would receive an additional insurance cover of Rs. 30,000.
All pre-existing diseases are also covered under MHIS.
The validity of an insurance policy is one year but it can be renewed by paying a nominal amount.
The benefit of this scheme can only be availed in MHIS empaneled hospitals.
In addition, the beneficiary can also get treatment of secondary and tertiary care hospitals which have been empaneled outside the state of Meghalaya.

For more information about the scheme, please visit the official website at mhis.org.in.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
