
Meghalaya government has launched CM Housing Assistance Programme for affordable houses. Subsequently, the state govt. is going to provide financial assistance and material for roofs of houses. Accordingly, this housing scheme will benefit the poor and economically weaker sections of the society. Henceforth, the state govt. will implement this scheme in both rural and urban areas.
The state govt. has changed the name of previous Meghalaya Affordable Housing Scheme to CM Housing Assistance Scheme. Previously, state govt. provides CGI sheets to the selected beneficiaries. However due to some undue reasons, this scheme was stopped.
This new CM Housing Assistance will include 2 components. Subsequently, the state govt. will provide construction materials for building houses. In addition to this, Meghalaya govt. will also provide a financial assistance of Rs 75,000 to the beneficiaries.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

CM Housing Assistance Programme
The important features and highlights of this scheme are as follows:-

This scheme is the new version of the previous Meghalaya Affordable Housing Scheme.
Meghalaya govt. will provide financial support of Rs. 75,000 to the beneficiaries for the construction purposes.
In addition to this, govt. will also provide the high quality roofing material.
Govt. is going to implement this scheme in the rural as well as the urban areas.
All the citizens can avail the benefits of this scheme to make a dwelling house for their family members.
Chief Minister launches this scheme to provide affordable housing to the people of Meghalaya.
This scheme follows the lines of “Housing for All” Scheme to provide every citizen its own house till the financial year 2022.

To successfully implement this scheme, the state govt. will constitute a selection committee. Accordingly, this committee will select the names and prepares the list of the beneficiaries. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Moreover, govt. will carry selection process at both the district and block level which further speeds up this implementation process. Citizens can take the maximum benefits of CM Housing Assistance Programme to realize their dream of own house in the state. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
