
Uttar Pradesh govt. is going to launch Free Bus Ride Scheme for BPL families. Subsequently, govt. will issue smart cards to the poor people and then there is no need for offline / online ticket booking. This free bus fare scheme will benefit around 1 crore BPL families in the state and will provide them with facility of free bus travel in various govt. buses. 
In addition to the free bus fare, govt. will also provide an accidental insurance coverage of upto Rs. 10 lakh per household. This insurance amount includes Rs. 5 lakh coverage in case of death.
Transport Department, UP has drafted this proposal of free bus travel for Below Poverty Line (BPL) families and is now sent for approval. This is a major step towards empowerment of women and will provide them security in bus fares.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

UP Free Bus Ride Scheme – Details
The important features and highlights of this scheme are as follows:-

This free travel scheme will provide absolutely free fares to the BPL citizens in any of government bus run by Transport dept. of UP.
Subsequently, the state transport department has prepared the proposal about free bus ride and has already sent it approval.
This is a major decision of Yogi govt. to provide free bus rides as the general elections are nearby i.e in 2019.
Under this scheme, transport department will require Rs. 2,990 per family to meet the expenses. Accordingly, the total revenue burden will remain around Rs. 3,000 crore per annum for the successful implementation of this scheme.
Accordingly, this scheme is going to benefit around 10 million BPL families.
Moreover, the transport department will issue smart cards to the BPL households which these citizens can utilize for free travel in govt. buses.
In addition to this, BPL candidates will also get an accidental insurance of Rs. 10 lakh per family including death insurance of Rs. 5 lakh.
Furthermore, various other departments like Panchayati Raj, Rural Development, Agriculture and Health are proposed to bear the cost of implementation.

Free Bus Ride Scheme is a major step towards security of girls and women in rural areas and thus promote “Women Empowerment”. Henceforth, all the girls who opt for private transport due to cheaper price of ticket booking and thus lead to harassment can now make free bus fare.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Transport department of Uttar Pradesh targets to connect all villages (around 1.07 lakh) with bus services in the coming 5 years. Moreover till date, UP transport dept. is running buses which connects 58,000 villages covering around 18,000 km in the state.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
