


Table of Contents

Book My HSRP UPUP High Security Registration Plates (HSRP) Apply OnlineCheck Status of HSRP Registration – Book My HSRP UPGovernment Order on HSRP in UP Verification of Vehicle Details at VAHAN Portal
Uttar Pradesh govt. starts apply online process for High Security Registration Plates (HSRP) for vehicles at bookmyhsrp.com. All the owners of 2 wheeler or 4 wheeler must be fitted with HSRP number plates compulsorily as per CMVR 1989 Rule 50. These plates will be installed by their respective automobile dealers in UP this month. In this article, we will tell you about the details of how to fill UP HSRP Application Form.
Book My HSRP UP
Book My HSRP Portal bookmyhsrp.com enables the vehicle owners in Uttar Pradesh to apply online for High Security Number Plates by entering the vehicle details. HSRP Online application at Book MY HSRP Portal is very easy and can be completed by anyone.
High Security Registration Plates (HSRP) was introduced by the central government in 2012 to check duplication of number plates. It is also meant to ensure uniformity in size, font and color.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

UP High Security Registration Plates (HSRP) Apply Online
Below is the complete process to apply online for UP High Security Registration Plates (HSRP):-
STEP 1: Firstly visit the official Book My HSRP UP portal at https://www.bookmyhsrp.com/Index.aspx 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

STEP 2: At the homepage, click at either “Private Vehicle (Non-Transport) – White Plate” or “Commercial Vehicle (Transport) – Yellow Plate” tab.
STEP 3: Select Fuel Type as either Petrol or Diesel or EV or CNG or CNG+Petrol as shown here:-
Book My HSRP Vehicle Fuel Type
STEP 4: Then select your vehicle type as two or three wheelers or four wheelers or commercial vehicles. 
Book My HSRP Vehicle Type
STEP 5: Next select Vehicle Make for your vehicle such as Scooter, Motorcycle, Auto Rikshaw, 4 wheeler or other with the name of the company who manufactures that vehicle.
STEP 6: Now select the name of the State as either Uttar Pradesh or Delhi as both of these states have already started HSRP registration process. 
STEP 7: Next applicants will have to select their nearest location or dealer from where you want to affix your HSRP. 
STEP 8: Then applicants will have to fill vehicle information as a part of the Booking / Appointment Details as shown here:- 
UP HSRP Booking / Appointment Details
Step 9: Applicants will have to enter their registration number, date, chassis number, engine no, e-mail ID, mobile number, vehicle type and click at “Next” button. Then verify the OTP sent on your registered mobile number. Select date and time slot.
Step 10: Finally, applicants can make payment through online mode. People can enter GST number if GST is registered. Your order will be confirmed through SMS and E-Mail.
Check Status of HSRP Registration – Book My HSRP UP
Here is the direct link to check the complete status of HSRP Registration in Uttar Pradesh – https://www.bookmyhsrp.com/CheckStatus.aspx. The page for checking status of High Security Registration Plates in UP will appear as shown below:-
Check High Security Registration Plates Status
Here applicants can check Appointment Status through Order ID, Vehicle Registration Number, Captcha and click at the “Search” button. 
Government Order on HSRP in UP 
Regional Transport Offices in Uttar Pradesh have met dealers and briefed them about HSRP fixing process. UP Transport Department has done its job and it is now upto dealers to create a portal and issue online appointments. This number plate installation process has to be completed very fast. Any vehicle owner can seek an appointment online with his / her dealer to get the HSRP fitted.
If one vehicle owner has relocated from the city where one bought the vehicle, then person can go to any dealer of automobile brand in new city. If the current city does not have a dealer then one can apply online for High Security Registration Plates in the nearest district. Before making online application, owner must ensure that there is no challan pending against the vehicle and its registration is valid.
The chip embedded HSRP number plates stores ownership details of vehicles in national database. In addition to this, engine and chassis numbers are also stored in national database for vehicles. The centralized records are very helpful in identification of any stolen car or bike.
Verification of Vehicle Details at VAHAN Portal
On the other hand, a dealer must verify details of the vehicle from the state government’s VAHAN portal. Dealer has to inform the vehicle owner through SMS if details does not match. The owner will have to visit the regional office and get details updated. All the vehicle owners who does not gets confirmatory SMS from their dealers will have to pay fee online, print receipt and get appointment. Read central government notification for HSRP installation through the link below:-https://parivahan.gov.in/parivahan/sites/default/files/NOTIFICATION%26ADVISORY/SO%206052%20E.pdf
An HSRP for 4 wheeler may cost around Rs. 500 and for a 2 wheeler around Rs. 200. No manual application will be accepted by dealers. Once the HSRP is fitted, dealers will have to update details on the VAHAN portal.
For more details on HSRP Registration in UP, click the link – https://www.bookmyhsrp.com/BookMyHSRP_HSRPFAQ.html





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/lucknow/up-apply-online-to-get-high-security-registration-plates-on-your-vehicle/articleshow/73329636.cms
SAVE AS PDF
