
The state government of Uttar Pradesh is all set to introduce a new scheme named as Mukhyamantri Samoohik Vivaah Yojana or Mass Marriage Scheme for new couples. Under the scheme, the state government will spend a total of Rs. 35000 for each couple out of which Rs. 20,000 will be transferred directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiary. Rest of the amount would be spent to provide a gift which will have a new mobile phone and other household items.
The guideline and framework of Mukhyamantri Samoohik Vivaah Yojana will be drawn by social welfare department, Uttar Pradesh. The objective of this scheme is to provide financial assistance on the occasion of marriage for the couple belonging to economically weaker section of the state.
The scheme has been approved by the state cabinet which will be launched as soon as all the contours of the scheme are finalized. The state government would form a committee for the identification of such eligible couple beneficiaries.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Eligibility for Mukhyamantri Samoohik Vivaah Yojana
UP Govt. has fixed some criteria to avail the benefits of this scheme given below:-

This scheme is only applicable for the citizens of Uttar Pradesh.
All the couples including Widow and Divorced will also get benefit of scheme but they should belong to Below Poverty Line (BPL) families.
The mass marriage ceremony must consist of at least 10 couples.

Highlights of Mukhyamantri Samoohik Vivaah Yojana
Below are some of the main highlights of the mass marriage scheme of Uttar Pradesh Government


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


This is a mass marriage scheme for the citizens of Uttar Pradesh. 
All the economically weaker section or BPL category families can avail the benefits of this scheme.
Widows and divorced women belonging to the poor sections of the society can also take the benefits of this scheme.
The State Govt. will provide total benefits of Rs. 35000 to each couple on their occasion but there should be at least 10 couples in the Mass Marriage Ceremony. 
Moreover, govt. will also provide a wedding dress and ‘bichhiya’ (toe ring) to the couples from the poor families.
These marriages will be authorized by district magistrates.
The mass marriage programme under the scheme would be organized by local bodies such as Nagar Panchayat, Nagar Palika and Nagar Nigam, Kshetra Panchayats, Zila Panchayats, Government / Semi-government Organizations and NGOs.

The state government has given its approval for the scheme on 3 October 2017. This scheme will soon be launched with the objective of making the marriage occasion a special one for the couples from poor sections.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
