
Yogi Adityanath’s government has decided to benefit the BPL families of Uttar Pradesh by providing them free power connection. Besides, APL families would also get an option to pay the bill in easy EMIs.
Under the free power connection scheme, 100% financing option with reasonable EMIs will be provided to the aPL household of urban and rural areas for taking electricity connections. These connections would not be given on any discrimination basis like caste or religion and it would be based on 2011 Socio – Economic Census data.
The government has also planned an amnesty scheme for those households and commercial connections who wants to take legal electricity connections.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Other decision that was taken along with the decision of providing free power connection to BPL Families are

100% feeder separation and smart metering expeditiously
Waving off interests on electricity dues
Provision of option of EMIs to pay off the principal amounts
Bringing in zero government official discretion

Officials have also been directed to take a weekly ground-level review of the progress of the project which to be implemented from next month onwards by the scheme officials and the officers of state power department Lucknow.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

All the old thermal power plants in the state would be replaced by Super Critical Power Plants. The Minister also directed the state power officers to devise a strategy to replace all the old thermal power plants in the state with Super Critical Power Plants and to engage in 100 per cent coal linkage swap so as to bring down the power costs for the common man.
Steps to be taken to achieving energy efficiency in power sector
– Replacement of all agricultural pump older more than 10 years across the state with energy efficient pumps having a smart control panel.
– Replacement of street lights across all municipalities with LED bulbs.
– Creating a stock of affordable energy efficient fans and tube lights freely available to the people.
– Creating awareness in common people about the government initiative towards power and energy saving like UJALA scheme under which the government has set a target to provide to 10 crores LED bulbs freely.
To implement the scheme, a roadmap is being prepared by the government to ensure 24×7 affordable quality power for all households living in rural and urban by October 2018.
Besides, the government of Uttar Pradesh has also decided to sign the “Power for All” document with the Center by mid-April, 2017.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
