


Table of Contents

Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana Kanpur Online Application Form by KDAPMAY Kanpur KDA Flats Online Registration – Important PointsReferences
Kanpur Development Authority (KDA), Uttar Pradesh is inviting Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana Kanpur Online Application Form. KDA has started Online registration of flats under PMAY in Kanpur from 24 August 2018. Interested candidates can apply online for over 10,000 KDA Flats by filling PMAY Kanpur Online Application Form at kdaindia.co.in 
For online registrations of PMAY Flats in Kanpur, KDA has already uploaded the software on its website. This time KDA invites PMAY Flats Online Registration Form for 10,032 flats from already selected applicants of SUDA / DUDA. KDA is consistently working for the construction of these houses.
Housing For All (PMAY-HFA) by 2022 is the flagship scheme of the Modi govt. to provide own house to every poor family across the country. Last date for registration of PMAY Kanpur Flats is 30 August 2018 which can be extended as well. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana Kanpur Online Application Form by KDA
There are 5040 flats in Mahabir Nagar (Panki), 576 flats in Ram Ganga Enclave (Panki), 2208 flats in Nagawa and 2208 flats in Sakrapur. All the existing applicants in Kanpur region who have already been selected in the previous list can now apply online. Applicants can make online registration for PMAY Kanpur with the banks as well. 

Visit the official website kdaindia.co.in
At the homepage, click at the “Online Property Information System” link as shown in the figure:-
KDA Uttar Pradesh PMAY Registration
Direct Link – People can directly click this link for PMAY KDA Kanpur Online Registration
Next click at the “Existing Allottee Register” tab appearing in green color as shown below:-
Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana Kanpur Uttar Pradesh
Afterwards, the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana Kanpur Online Form 2018 will appear as follows:-
KDA Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana Online Form 2018
Here all the existing allottees can enter their complete details and click at the “Verify Button” to complete the registration process.
Candidates can make ‘Applicants Login‘ to completely fill the Pradhan mantri Awas Yojana Kanpur Online Application Form by KDA. Next, candidates can “Search Property / Make Payment“
Existing Allottees can make Login to complete the application process.

In the month of September, KDA will organize a Lottery and allocate these flats to the beneficiaries. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

PMAY Kanpur KDA Flats Online Registration – Important Points
All the applicants must remember the following points while filling PMAY Kanpur KDA Flats Online Registration Form:- 

Online Form is absolutely free of cost. Now applicants will not have to purchase form of Rs. 160 from banks.
To purchase a flat, applicants can make online payment of Rs. 5 thousand at the official website.
The location of all these flats can also seen on Google Maps.

There are a large number of applicants who are filling Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana Kanpur Online Application Form. To avoid the last minute rush, applicants must fill the application form online as soon as possible before final date. 
References
— For more details, visit the official website http://www.kdaindia.co.in/en/index.php





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
