


Table of Contents

Kanya Vidya Dhan Yojana 2016Objective of Kanya Vidya Dhan YojanaEligibility Criteria for Kanya Vidya Dhan YojanaKanya Vidya Dhan Yojana – How to Apply
Kanya Vidya Dhan Yojana is a scholarship scheme launched by the Uttar Pradesh Government to provide scholarships to meritorious girl students in the state. Under the scheme, the UP government provides a financial assistance of Rs. 30,000 to each girl student who has achieved merit distinction in 12th board exams.
Kanya Vidya Dhan Yojana 2016
For the year 2016, the government would distribute Rs 267.30 cr to 89,100 meritorious girl students under the Kanya Vidya Dhan Yojana. Under the scheme, an amount of Rs. 30,000 will be transferred directly to the saving bank accounts of to the girl students who have excelled in intermediate or equivalent examinations in the state.
The amount will be transferred by the end of September to accounts of all the beneficiary girl students.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Kanya Vidya Dhan Yojana merit list 2016 can be downloaded district wise from the link below.
Merit List 2016
Kanya Vidya Dhan Yojana 2016 Hindi
Earlier, only the UP board girl students were eligible for the scheme but the state government has amended the scheme to include more boards and institutions. Kanya Vidya Dhan scheme now to include meritorious passouts of Class XII of State Secondary Education Council, Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), Indian Certificate of Secondary Education, UP Madarsa Council and UP Sanskrit Education Council.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Objective of Kanya Vidya Dhan Yojana
The main objective of the scheme is to encourage girl students to go for higher studies and support them financially. The scheme is dedicated to girls from poor households who are not able to seek higher education due to shortage of funds.
Eligibility Criteria for Kanya Vidya Dhan Yojana
The scheme is meant only for the girl students whose annual family income is not more than a certain amount as decided by the Government. To be eligible for the scheme, the girl student should achieve merit distinction in their intermediate or equivalent examinations.
Only the girl students of UP board, State Secondary Education Council, Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), Indian Certificate of Secondary Education, UP Madarsa Council and UP Sanskrit Education Council who have passed class 12th can apply for this scheme.
Kanya Vidya Dhan Yojana – How to Apply
To apply for the Kanya Vidya Dhan Yojana, the eligible girl students needs to fill the application forms in the prescribed form.
Application Form
The application form can be downloaded online. The filled application form has to be submitted to the school from where 12th class is passed. The school then will evaluate and verify the details and submit the filled application form to the concerned DIOS office / Jila Vidyalaya Nirikshak (District Inspector of School).
Download the application form for Kanya Vidya Dhan Yojana 2016 using the link below
http://auraya.nic.in/kanyavi.pdf
Documents Required for Kanya Vidya Dhan Yojana
Following are the two mandatory documents to be attached with the application form:
1. Self attested mark sheet and certificate xerox copy of Intermediate
2. Certified copy of Income certificate.
IMG CREDITS: Huffington Post & Patrika





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
