


Table of Contents

UP Berojgari Bhatta 2018 Online Registration ProcedureUP Berojgari Bhatta 2018 – Eligibility CriteriaList of Documents RequiredHighlights & Benefits of UP Berojgari Bhatta 2018References
Uttar Pradesh Government is going to start Berojgari Bhatta 2018 for unemployed youths. Subsequently, all the educated youths who does not posses any job can apply for this UP Unemployment Allowance Scheme. Accordingly, the state govt. will provide financial assistance till the time youths get desired job. Interested candidates can apply online through the official website sewayojan.up.nic.in
Candidates from all districts can apply online to get job related information in the government and private sector. To get Unemployment Allowance (Berojgari Bhatta), candidates have to make online registration with the Employment Department of UP. 
UP govt. will provide Rs. 1000 per month to the eligible beneficiaries. Unemployed candidates who are struggling to get a job can utilize this money to enhance their skills. The lines for registration are open and candidates can now make online registration. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

UP Berojgari Bhatta 2018 Online Registration Procedure
The complete procedure to register online at the official portal of UP Employment Exchange Department has been specified below:-

Firstly visit the official website sewayojan.up.nic.in
Subsequently on the homepage, click the “पंजीकरण” link present in the main menu or directly click this link.
Afterwards Berojgari Bhatta 2018 Registration Form will appear as shown below:-
Uttar Pradesh Berojgari Bhatta 2018 Registration Form
Here candidates have to fill all the necessary details including Mobile number, Password and E-mail id and the click the “प्रविष्ट करें” button.
Accordingly, candidates have to verify their mobile number through an OTP and complete their Registration Process.
Next candidates can make Login and complete their profile to get the updates on various jobs on their registered mobile number.

Furthermore, candidates can take a printout of the completed application form to apply for the UP Berojgari Bhatta.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

UP Berojgari Bhatta 2018 – Eligibility Criteria
The candidate must fulfill the following eligibility criteria to make online registration:-

The candidate must be a permanent resident of Uttar Pradesh.
Candidates must have passed at-least 10th standard (High School) examinations.
The candidate must be currently unemployed i.e he must not be not working in any private or government job. 
Moreover, all the applicants must lie in the age group between 25-40 years.
The total family income of the candidates from all sources must not exceed Rs. 36000 per annum.

List of Documents Required
The following documents are necessary to apply for the allowance:-


Aadhaar Card
Birth Certificate


Income Certificate
Domicile / Resident Certificate


Registration Certificate of Employment Exchange
Certificate of Educational Qualifications (10th Class Marksheet or above)


Rs. 10 Non-Judicial Stamp paper
Affidavit (Notary Certified)


Highlights & Benefits of UP Berojgari Bhatta 2018
UP govt. is providing this Berojgari Bhatta which will have the following benefits:-
— Candidates will receive a financial assistance of Rs. 1000.
— Subsequently, the eligible candidates will get this unemployment allowance per month.
— Accordingly, candidates will get this amount till the time they get desired job.
References
— Candidates can also see the upcoming Rojgar Mela (Job Fairs) organized in the state using the link given below:-
Rojgar Mela
— Candidates can also see the upcoming jobs in Government and Private sector using below link:-
Government Jobs
Private Jobs
— Furthermore in case of any query, candidates can contact on the UP Employment Exchange Helpline Number – 0522-2638995, 91-7839454211 or can send an e-mail to [email protected]





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
