


Table of Contents

Making Complaint at UP Anti Corruption PortalList of Topics which are not GrievancesUP Jansunwai Portal – Track Complaint StatusUP Anti Corruption Portal Feedback
Uttar Pradesh Govt. has launched an Anti Corruption Potal – Jansunwai on the completion of its 1st year term. On this Anti Graft Web Portal, people can upload any audio or video against any corrupt act. Moreover, Yogi Adityanath also made an announcement that his government is soon going to hire 4 lakh people in government departments. People can lodge their complaints /grievances at Anti Graft portal jansunwai.up.nic.in 
Yogi assures people that any person committing corruption or encouraging it at any level will not be spared. Govt. will take strict and effective action against the officers if a video or any other evidence is uploaded on Anti Graft Portal. This portal will act as a lethal blow on corrupt officers.
UP Govt. will keep the identity of the person making complaint secret. Yogi also launches a new book named “Ek Saal Nai Misal” with the tagline “Hua Vikas, Bada Vishwas”.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Making Complaint at UP Anti Corruption Portal
To lodge a complaint against any government officer, people will first have to make Anti Graft Portal Registration:-

Firstly visit the official website jansunwai.up.nic.in
The UP Anti Corruption Portal / Jansunwai Portal will appear as shown below:-
Uttar Pradesh Anti Corruption Portal
Here click at the “Anti Corruption Portal” button in green and then UP Anti Graft Portal Registration Form will appear as shown below:-
Anti Graft Portal Complaint Registration Form
Here candidates can make registration through OTP (mobile number or e-mail). UP Citizens can then upload photo or video evidence and register their grievance against corrupt officers.

UP govt. will authenticate the evidence and will take strict and efficient action against corrupt people.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

List of Topics which are not Grievances
Govt. will not consider the following subjects as complaints / grievances:-

Matter Under RTI (Right to Information)
All the Subjudice Matters
Suggestions
Demanding Financial Support or Jobs
Service Matters of Government employees including transfer.

UP Jansunwai Portal – Track Complaint Status
People can see the progress on the complaint through the UP Anti Corruption Portal. They can easily Track Complaint Status and the grievance tracking page will appear as follows:-
UP Jansunwai Portal Track Complaint Status
Here complainant can enter their complaint nummber, mobile number / e-mail and click “Submit” button to track grievance status. Moreover, if govt. does not addresses the complain in a specific time frame, then people can also Send Reminder. CM Yogi will specially monitor the pending cases. 
UP Anti Corruption Portal Feedback
Feedback facility is also available to provide feedback on quality of disposal of service. Higher officers will evaluate this feedback and also can regenerate the dispose complaint. All the citizens can send their feedback on their complaints through the link given below:-
Jansunwai – Give Feedback
The primary objective is to resolve all complaints in a given time period and to provide “Good Governance”. Moreover, people can also make complaints on the UP Anti Corruption Helpline Number 1076.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
