


Table of Contents

UP Divyang (Viklang) Shadi Protsahan Yojana Online Registration FormUP Divyang (Handicap) Shadi Protsahan Yojana Online Application FormUP Divyangjan Shaadi-Vivaah Protsahan Puraskar Yojana Application StatusUP Handicapped Marriage Incentives Application Form Re-Print
Uttar Pradesh govt. is inviting online registrations for UP Divyangjan Shadi Vivaah Protsahan Puraskar Yojana. Under this scheme, the state govt. will provide incentives upto Rs. 35,000 on marriage of handicapped people. Divyangjan Sashaktikaran Vibhag will provide this incentive amount even if one of the spouse is viklang (specially abled). People can apply online for Divyang (Handicap) Shadi Protsahan Yojana to get marriage assistance at divyangjan.upsdc.gov.in 
If the boy is viklang, then financial assistance of Rs. 15,000 would be provided under UP Divyang (Viklang) Shadi Protsahan Yojana. If the girl is handicap, then financial assistance of Rs. 20,000 would be provided under UP Divyang (Handicap) Shadi Protsahan Yojana. If both are handicapped, then financial assistance of Rs. 35,000 would be given under this scheme. 
Viklang Kalyan Vibhag is currently inviting online registrations from the Handicapped person to avail the benefits of Divyangjan Shaadi-Vivaah Protsahan Puraskar Yojana.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

UP Divyang (Viklang) Shadi Protsahan Yojana Online Registration Form
Below is the complete procedure to fill Handicapped Shaadi-Vivaah Protsahan Puraskar Yojana in Uttar Pradesh:-

Firstly visit the official website of Divyangjan Sashaktikaran Vibhag at divyangjan.upsdc.gov.in
UP Divyang Viklang Shadi Protsahan Yojana
At the homepage, click at the “पंजीकरण / आवेदन करने हेतु निचे क्लिक करें” link or directly visit this link
Afterwards, the Divyang (Viklang) Shadi Protsahan Yojana Online Registration Form will appear as follows:-
UP Divyang Viklang Shadi Protsahan Yojana Online Registration Form
Here candidates needs to enter the personal details, upload documents to completely fill the registration process.
Finally, candidates needs to click at the “Submit” button to complete the registration process.

Applicants needs to upload Disability Certificate (40% or more disability) & Marriage Certificate to get Registration Number.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

UP Divyang (Handicap) Shadi Protsahan Yojana Online Application Form
After making online registrations, candidates can fill completed application form for Divyang (Handicap) Shadi Protsahan Yojana. To fill the online application form, candidates needs to visit the official website divyangjan.upsdc.gov.in. Then click at the “पंजीकरण के बाद / अपूर्ण आवेदन आवेदन पत्र भरने के लिए” link or directly click this link. Afterwards, candidates needs to enter the Registration Number which they got after making registration. UP Divyang (Handicap) Shadi Protsahan Yojana Online Application Form will appear as follows:-
UP Divyang Handicap Shadi Protsahan Yojana Online Application Form
After entering the registration number and clicking on “Submit” button, candidates needs to fill the newly opened application form. 
UP Divyangjan Shaadi-Vivaah Protsahan Puraskar Yojana Application Status
All the candidates can check their Application status after filling the completed application form. To check the application status, click the “आवेदन पत्र की स्तिथि पता करने हेतु यहाँ क्लिक करें” link or directly click this link. Application Status Check Page will appear as follows:-
UP Divyangjan Shadi Vivaah Protsahan Puraskar Yojana Application Status
Here candidates needs to select the “District”, enter the “Reg. No” and click at the “Search” button to check the application status. 
UP Handicapped Marriage Incentives Application Form Re-Print
To re-print UP Handicap Marriage Incentive Application Form, click at the “आवेदन पत्र पुनः प्रिंट करने हेतु यहां क्लिक करें” link. Here candidates needs to enter the Application Number to re-print the application form. 

दिव्यांगजन शादी-विवाह प्रोत्साहन पुरस्कार योजना के लिए वेबसाइट https://t.co/ilKU1GzXNk पर ऑनलाइन आवेदन करें। pic.twitter.com/MlfR2ruiQi
— CM Office, GoUP (@CMOfficeUP) September 16, 2018

For more details, visit the official website http://divyangjan.upsdc.gov.in/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
