


Table of Contents

Online Registrations for Fasal Rin Mochan Yojana (Kisan Karj Rahat) in UPDocuments Required for UP Kisan Karz Mafi Yojana / Fasal Rin Mochan YojanaEligibility Criteria for UP Farm Loan Waiver Scheme / Kisan Karj Mafi YojanaOfficial Website at upkisankarjrahat.upsdc.gov.inAdvertisement of Fasal Rin Mochan Yojana
Uttar Pradesh Government has launched Uttar Pradesh Fasal Rin Mochan Yojana (UP Farm Loan Waiver Scheme 2019) online portal at upkisankarjrahat.upsdc.gov.in. The eligible interested farmer candidates can register themselves to avail the farm loan waiver under the scheme. The UP Fasal Rin Mochan Yojana was launched on 9th July 2017 for waiving off the farm loans of farmers.
UP Fasal Rin Mochan Yojana or the loan waiver scheme is expected to benefit about 86 lakh farmers across the state whose loans would be waived off by the government. UP farm loan waiver scheme or the fasal rin mochan yojana is the first official scheme launched by CM Yogi Aadityanath after coming to the power. By 17th of August 2019, all the eligible farmers should get the loan waiver and thereafter the loan waiver certificates.
Latest Update – Now farmers can track their Loan Redemption Status and see the Farmers Karj Mafi List. Moreover, the online UP Kisan Karj Mafi Complaint Login & Status is also included at the Karz Mochan Portal. For more details – Click Here



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The farm loan waiver scheme 2019 in Uttar Pradesh is being implemented on district-wise where the scheme implementation is being supervised by the district magistrate. The farmers who meet the eligibility criteria for the scheme can register themselves on the online portal at upkisankarjrahat.upsdc.gov.in.
Online Registrations for Fasal Rin Mochan Yojana (Kisan Karj Rahat) in UP
STEP 1: Eligible farmers have to visit the official website of UP Fasal Rin Mochan Yojana or the farm loan waiver scheme 2019 at http://upkisankarjrahat.upsdc.gov.in. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

STEP 2: If the farmer is already a member on the website, he/she can use the “Login” button to login with the user id and password.
STEP 3: For new registration, farmers first will have to sign up by providing all required information on the website. The registration form for loan waiver can be filled after the sign up process is complete.
STEP 4: Information such as name, age, contact details, bank account, Aadhar number and also land & loan details would be required in the loan waiver registration form.
STEP 5: After filling and verifying all the information, click the “Submit” button. The verification process would be started later by the department.
Documents Required for UP Kisan Karz Mafi Yojana / Fasal Rin Mochan Yojana
Eligible farmers would be required to submit at least the following two documents
1. Aadhaar card
2. Land papers of the farmers
The bank account number and details will also be needed for the scheme.
Eligibility Criteria for UP Farm Loan Waiver Scheme / Kisan Karj Mafi Yojana
Below is the eligibility criteria for the farm loan waiver scheme in Uttar Pradesh

The farmer must be the residents of Uttar Pradesh.
The farmers’ lands on which the loan is taken must be within the UP state premise.
Farm loans before 31st March, 2016 will only be eligible to get the loan waiver under the scheme.
Loan amount of up to Rs. 1 Lac would be eligible for the scheme.
The farmer’s bank account should be linked with the Aadhar number.
Farmers with the ownership of lans of up to 2 Hectares would only be entitled to get the loan waiver benefits.

Official Website at upkisankarjrahat.upsdc.gov.in
The official website for the UP loan waiver scheme is http://upkisankarjrahat.upsdc.gov.in/. All the information regarding the registration process and other details is available at this official website. The official booklet of the UP farm loan waiver scheme 2019 can be downloaded from the official website at http://upkisankarjrahat.upsdc.gov.in/img/English%20Booklet%20for%20PDF.pdf
Download in Hindi
Helpline
The state government has also released helpline toll free numbers to get any detail about the scheme
Nodal Officer: 9235209436
District Lead Manager: 9412626279
Also Read – MP Kisan Karz Mafi Yojna
Advertisement of Fasal Rin Mochan Yojana
UP Fasal Rin Mochan Yojana





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
