
Uttar Pradesh govt. is going to launch a populist UP New Old Age Pension Scheme 2018 for All Senior Citizens. Under this scheme, Yogi Sarkar will provide Rs. 800 as monthly pension to around 50 lakh people. This scheme is just like Samajwadi Pension Yojana (Rs. 750 per month) but with an increased coverage. This new pension scheme will also include people having 2 wheeler vehicles and Pucca Ghar. UP govt. will launch this new scheme between July 2018 to August 2018.
The state govt. has loosened the restrictions this time so that more people becomes eligible to avail this scheme benefits. Govt. has prepared the entire draft of this scheme and will launch this scheme very soon with an increased amount of Rs. 50. People can also avail the benefits of other social security schemes like Vidhwa Pension Yojana, Viklang Pension Yojana in UP. 
All the candidates living Below the Poverty Line having income as specified in the Central govt. norms will remain eligible to apply for this scheme. This new scheme with relaxed rules and regulations will be announced near the Independence Day (15 August 2018). 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

UP New Old Age Pension Scheme 2018 – Application Form for Senior Citizens
The state govt. will invite online applications for the New Old Age Pension Scheme 2018 as invited previously for Samajwadi Pension Scheme. This could be done through the UP Govt. Portal or a new dedicated portal. Interested candidates will have to fill the application forms as soon as they becomes available.
Uttar Pradesh New Pension Scheme For All will be the flagship scheme of the Yogi Aadityanath Govt. Name and place of Launch is still not decided yet. As soon the state govt. will launch this scheme, focus will be on the implementation of this scheme in a transparent manner. Moreover, this scheme will ensure that a large number of people are covered and no one remains isolated. All the eligible candidates will get Rs. 800 as monthly pension.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Uttar Pradesh New Pension Scheme for All
This UP New Pension Scheme is significant as it has the less number of restrictions than the previous schemes. The candidates must fulfill the following eligibility criteria to avail this scheme:-

Applicant must be a resident of Uttar Pradesh.
All the senior citizens having 60 years or more age can apply online.
His / Her Name must appear in the Indian Final BPL List – SECC 2011 Data.
All the candidates having a bike (any 2 wheeler) or a permanent house are also eligible if they satisfies the other eligibility criteria.

All the senior citizens belonging to the poor and economically weaker sections are eligible to apply for this socialist pension scheme. This scheme will connect the poor people directly with the govt. and will result in the overall development of the state.
Also Read – Existing UP Old Age Pension Scheme – View Details 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
