
उत्तर प्रदेश वृक्षारोपण महाकुम्भ की शुरुआत होगी 9 अगस्त 2019 से, योगी आदित्यनाथ सरकार लगाएगी 22 करोड़ पौधे, इस अभियान के अंतर्गत हर युवा एक पौधे को गोद ले और उसका पोषण करे, सरकार की अपील है की सांस्कृतिक महाकुंभ की तरह वृक्षारोपण महाकुंभ को भी जन आंदोलन बनाएंUttar Pradesh govt. is going to start Vriksharopan Mahakumbh on the 77th anniversary of Quit India Movement. CM Yogi Adityanath led UP govt. aims to plant 22 crore saplings. The chief minister would launch this mega greenery drive by planting Harishankari, combination of 3 sacred trees – peepul, pakar and banyan – at Jaitikheda in Lucknow.
The honorable governor of UP, Anandiben Patel is also going to participate in Vriksharopan Mahakumbh drive and plant saplings at Ganga forest in Kasganj here. Yogi Adityanath will also distribute saplings absolutely free at parade ground on banks of Ganga-Yamuna confluence in Allahabad.
In order to ensure proper monitoring of growth of trees, majority of saplings planted at village panchayat level would be geotagged. UP govt. has also appointed “tree guardians” to nurture the plants and monitor their growth.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Yogi Govt. to Plant 22 Crore Trees – Vriksharopan Mahakumbh
The state govt. of Uttar Pradesh is all set to break its own previous record of planting trees by planting 22 crore saplings. UP govt. has prepared a micro plan for each gram panchayat to help farmers get saplings and plant them. Yogi Adityanth has included block development committees, gram pradhans and block development officers in its greenery drive.
This decision of Yogi Govt. to Plant 22 Crore Trees would play a crucial role in curbing air pollution, soil erosion and depletion of ground water level. Various farmers registered under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, Swachh Bharat Mission, Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana and beneficiaries of various other schemes in its greenery drive.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

UP govt. has chosen saplings for plantation which mainly includes teak, drumstick, eucalyptus (gum trees), mango, mahua, berries, guava besides hundreds of other species.
UP Vriksharopan Mahakumbh 2019
All these saplings would be distributed absolutely free of cost among people. 

मेरी युवाओं से अपील है कि वे आगे आएं,हर युवा एक पौधे को गोद ले और उसका पोषण करे
सांस्कृतिक महाकुंभ की तरह वृक्षारोपण महाकुंभ को भी जन आंदोलन बनाएं
आइये,आगे बढ़ अपनी धरती माँ को बचाएं और आने वाली पीढ़ियों के लिए बेहतर पर्यावरण सुनिश्चित करें#UPHaritKranti #GreenUPGreenIndia
— Yogi Adityanath (@myogiadityanath) August 9, 2019
 
Out of these 22 crore trees, around 7 crore trees would be planted by the forest department and 15 crore trees by the other departments. Tree guardian will ensure that not only every sapling is planted but also cared for and bring geo-tagging of GPs to check status of plantation. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://www.devdiscourse.com/article/national/627568-cm-to-launch-vriksharopan-mahakumbh-on-august-kranti-anniversary
SAVE AS PDF
