
Uttar Pradesh govt. is going to launch Skill on Wheels Programme for youths. Under this scheme, all the educated youths will get vocational training. The state govt. will introduce this program on a largescale to ensure that youths get employment at doorsteps. Firstly this program will be launched in Varanasi, Lucknow, Allahabad, Jhansi, Gorakhpur, Agra and Meerut.
Training for various job roles will ensure that the unemployed youths possess skills necessary to get desired jobs. After their skill development training, they can get work anywhere in the state and raise their standards of living.
This decision is taken by CM Yogi Aadityanath after meeting with Union Minister of State for Skill Development Anant Kumar Hegde in Lucknow on 24 July 2018.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

UP Skills on Wheels Programme 2018
The state govt. of Uttar Pradesh will launch “Skill On Wheels” program in Varanasi, Lucknow, Allahabad, Jhansi, Gorakhpur, Agra and Meerut. The important features and highlights of this scheme are as follows:-

All the educated youths would be given 5 days training in vocation of their choice.
All such trainee will be given a certificate of “Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL)”.
In addition to this, youths will be imparted training about basic necessities like plumbing and mason work.
Trainees can enroll and get jobs with handsome salary in various government schemes. For eg – Under Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, govt. has taken the responsibility to construct toilets. So, all the trained plumbers and masons can become handy and get employment at their doorsteps. Similarly, trades will be decided as per the needs of other sectors.
In the first phase, this scheme will join 5 lakh unemployed craftsmen / mechanic / tradesman.
CM Yogi also advocated the need to possess need-based vocational training.

The training courses will be specifically designed keeping in mind the type of jobs in their areas. Union Minister Hegde said that an National Skill Development Institute like IIM could be set up in Kanpur to look after skill development exclusively.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Tie-up with Major Companies to Provide Jobs
Under this Skill Development Mission, govt. has made Tie-ups with major IT / ITES, Mechanical, Electrical & Electronics based companies. These includes Raymonds, Maruti India Ltd., Lava International, Intex, Yashoda Hospitals, G4S, Javed Habib, Supertek Ltd., ATDC, Bhilwada Group and Lemon Electronics. In addition to this, 3 Mobile App Skill Connect, Skill Mitra and Mobile Monitoring System are launched.
The state govt. is currently running “ITI Chalo” Initiative and govt. is also holding online examinations for ITI Admissions. Under this Model ITI Scheme, two state run ITIs (Saket-Meerut & Karondi-Varanasi) are being upgraded.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
