
Yogi Adityanath has given directions to the officials to extend the pension facility to 14 lakh more beneficiaries in Uttar Pradesh. These UP CM new pension beneficiaries include widows, farmers, old age and specially-abled persons of Uttar Pradesh who despite being eligible were not covered under the schemes. With this decision of UP CM Yogi Adityanath, around 14,21,539 new beneficiaries would now be able to avail the benefits of pension schemes.
UP govt. has identified all the left out beneficiaries in district wise survey which includes 3,96,269 widows, 9,04,609 farmers and old age people and 1,20,661 specially abled persons. All the left out candidates would have to fill the application form and upon the verification of documents, these new eligible beneficiaries will start getting pension amount. 
All the new beneficiaries will get the pension benefits under the ongoing Widow Pension scheme, Old Age Pension / Farmers Pension scheme and Handicapped (Viklang) Pension scheme in Uttar Pradesh.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

UP Pension Schemes to Cover 14 lakh More Beneficiaries
UP govt. has asked the officials for the extension of pension facility to over 14 lakh persons who inspite of fulfilling the required norms were unable to get the govt. schemes benefits. Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath has decided to extend the pension benefits to all widows, farmers, the aged and disbaled persons who fulfilled the required norms but were not covered under the schemes. After the implementation of this decision, over 14.21 lakh beneficiaries will become eligible to avail the pension schemes benefits.
During his recent visits to the district visits, the chief minister Yogi was apprised as certain people were left out of the pension schemes even though they had been complied with required norms. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

People were eligible to avail the scheme benefits but were not getting any pension amount meant for them. So, UP CM Yogi Adityanath has issued directions to identify all such eligible persons and even a recommendation to this effect was made after the verification of new names.
CM Yogi Adityanath New Pension Beneficiaries
In the recent district-wise surveys by the UP government, around 3.96 lakh widows were identified who are now going to be covered under the Widow (Vidhwa) Pension scheme. In addition to this, around 9.04 lakh farmers and old age persons have been identified and they will now get pension schemes meant for them. More than 1.20 lakh disabled persons have been identified to get assistance in the form of pension under (Viklang) Pension scheme.
References
For more details on the decision of Yogi, click at – UP CM New Pension Beneficiaries 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
