


Table of Contents

Application Form for Pandit Deendayal Gramodyog Rozgar YojanaEligibility for Pandit Deendayal Gramodyog Rozgar YojanaDetails about Loan and Repayment under Pandit Deendayal Gramodyog Rozgar Yojana
The state government of Uttar Pradesh has launched Pandit Deendayal Gramodyog Rozgar Yojana to generate employment in rural areas across the state. The state government has made a provision of providing financial assistance under the scheme in the form of loan. The state government would provide loans to the state youth up to Rs. 25 Lakh. 
UP government is inviting the youth of the state for application for Panedit Deendayal Gramodyog Rozgar Yojana. The official website www.upkvib.gov.in or upkhadi.data-center.co.in can be visited by the interested candidates to check all the details of the scheme such as ligibility criteria, age limit, document requirement etc.
Moreover, state government will also provide training facilities for those candidate who will be selected under the scheme. The intention of UP government is to increase the opportunities for employment to youth across the state.
Gramodyog Rozgar Yojana.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Interested candidate have to visit at official portal at upkvib.gov.in upkvib.gov.in
Application Form for Pandit Deendayal Gramodyog Rozgar Yojana
Below is the procedure to download the application form of Deendayal 
From the main menu, click on पं0 दीनदयाल ग्रामोद्योग रोजगार योजना link.
On the next page, users will receive all information regarding the scheme.
Afterward, Deendayal Gramodyog Rozgar Yojana application form can be downloaded using the below link.
 Download Application Form

Eligibility for Pandit Deendayal Gramodyog Rozgar Yojana

This scheme is only applicable for the youth of Uttar Pradesh.
Age of youth should be between 18 to 40 years.
Academic qualification must be minimum 10th passed from a recognized board to get more than Rs. 15 Lakh loan.
Aadhar card is mandatory at the time of filling the registration form.
All documents are necessary if youth have any work experience.

Details about Loan and Repayment under Pandit Deendayal Gramodyog Rozgar Yojana

 Eligible candidate will get loan up to Rs. 25 lakhs through private and cooperative banks.
Loan will be sanctioned on the instructions issued by Reserve Bank of India RBI / India Government from time to time. After approval, the amount of loan will be transferred directly into the bank account of beneficiary.
5% cost of the project will be borne by the entrepreneurs themselves.

To get more detail of the scheme, please visit the official website at upkvib.gov.in


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});






(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
