


Table of Contents

UP Mukhyamantri Kanya Sumangala Yojana Apply Online Form 2020UP Kanya Sumangla Yojana Online Registration / Application TypesUP Kanya Sumangala Yojana Eligibility for Registration
Uttar Pradesh government is inviting online applications for UP Mukhyamantri Kanya Sumangla Yojana [कन्या सुमंगला योजना] 2019-2020 at official website mksy.up.gov.in. Kanya Sumangla Yojana is a conditional cash transfer scheme to ensure social security to girl child & her development. Interested ones can apply online by filling UP CM Kanya Sumangala Yojana 2020 online registration form, read scheme guidelines and check application process at Citizen Services Portal.
UP CM Kanya Sumangala Yojna will prevent social evils like female foeticide and child marriage. Moreover, girls will get an opportunity to advance towards higher education and employment. This scheme will assist girls of UP state from their birth till their graduation studies. UP state government has allocated Rs. 1200 crore for UP Kanya Sumangala Yojana in UP Budget 2020-21 presented on 18 February.
Along with improvement in health and education of girls, their dropout rates would get reduced. For this purpose, govt. will deposit pre-determined amount at the regular intervals in the name of girl child through DBT mode.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

UP Mukhyamantri Kanya Sumangala Yojana Apply Online Form 2020
Below is the complete process to apply online for UP CM Kanya Sumangala Yojana 2019-2020:-

Firstly visit the UP CM Kanya Sumangala Yojana official website at mksy.up.gov.in
At the homepage, click at the “Citizen Services Portal – Apply Here” link under ‘Quick Links’ section.
All the first time users can register themselves and click at “I Agree” option as shown below:-
UP Kanya Sumangla Yojana Online Registration
Afterwards, the UP Kanya Sumangala Yojana online application form will appear as shown below:-
Kanya Sumangala Yojana UP Online Form
Here candidates can enter all necessary details and click at “Send SMS OTP” to complete the online registration process.
Finally, candidates can make login at official website as shown below:-
UP Kanya Sumangla Yojana Official Website Login
Enter login ID and password to complete the UP Kanya Sumangla Yojna apply online process.

The complete UP CM Kanya Sumangla Yojana Online Application Process is now available at the official website.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

UP Kanya Sumangla Yojana Online Registration / Application Types
Here are the 6 types or stages for which the online application for UP Kanya Sumangla Yojana can be made:-

Stage 1 – Rs. 2,000 as one time (lump sum) on birth of girl child. The girl must be born on or after 1 April 2019.
Stage 2 – The girl who is not born before 1 April 2019 and has received full immunization will get Rs. 1,000 one time amount.
Stage 3 – The girl child who has enrolled in standard 1 during the current academic year will be benefited with Rs. 2,000 one time amount.
Stage 4 – The girl child who has enrolled in standard 6 during the current academic year will be benefited with Rs. 2,000 one time amount.
Stage 5 – The girl child who has enrolled in standard 9 during the current academic year will be benefited with Rs. 3,000 one time amount.
Stage 6 – The girl who has passed standard 10th or 12th and enrolled in at-least 2 year diploma course or graduate degree will get Rs. 5,000 as lump sum amount.

UP Kanya Sumangala Yojana Eligibility for Registration
Here is the eligibility criteria for UP Kanya Sumangla Yojna registration:-

The candidate must be a resident of Uttar Pradesh. For this residence proof needs to be produced which includes Ration Card / Aadhar Card / Voter Card / Electricity Bill / Telephone Bill.
The income of beneficiary family from all sources must not exceed Rs. 3 lakh per annum.
Maximum of 2 girls of a single family would be benefited under Kanya Sumangla Yojana.
Family size of the beneficiaries must not exceed 2.
In case the women delivers twin babies in her second delivery then 3rd girl child would also be eligible. If 1st child is girl and 2 twin girls are born from second delivery, then all 3 girls would be eligible.
If family has adopted an orphan girl then max of 2 girls would be benefited including biological children and adopted girl child.

The official website mksy.up.gov.in is live for pilot test from 17 September 2019. UP CM Yogi Adityanath will launch this scheme on 11 October 2019 and will distribute certificates to beneficiaries.
— For more details, visit the official portal at https://mksy.up.gov.in/women_welfare/index.php 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://mksy.up.gov.in/women_welfare/index.php
SAVE AS PDF
