
Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav has over the past few years launched several schemes for the benefit of common man and this is why he very often referred as a people-friendly chief minister by the netizens of Uttar Pradesh.
Out of several pro-development and pro-people plans, the one which really brought smiles on faces of thousands of people is ‘Putriyon Ki Shadi Hetu Anudan Yojana’. Akhilesh Yadav, who deeply understands and respects people of all religion and community and hence the schemes launched by him focus on overall development of the society. 
Putriyon Ki Shadi Hetu Anudan Yojana – Brief
The ‘Putriyon Ki Shadi Hetu Anudan Yojana’ scheme is one such scheme which provides financial assistance for the marriage of young women whose family doesn’t have enough money for that. The scheme, which was discontinued in the past, has now been reintroduced with some modifications. The chief minister launched the marriage scheme by presenting certificates to 10 beneficiaries at his official residence. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

It would not be wrong to say that Putriyon Ki Shadi Hetu Anudan Yojana is latest or 2.0 version of ‘Shadi Bimari Yojna’, which was launched by his father and former chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav during his tenure. 
Under the ‘Shadi Bimari Yojna’- launched by Samajwadi Party supremo Mulayam Singh – financial assistance of ten thousand rupees was given for marriage of a girl and additional five thousand rupees for the medical treatment. However, the scheme was discontinued in the year financial 2014-15 to pave way for some new projects. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

But the Chief Minister was very well aware of the fact that the scheme was really helpful for the people of the most populous state of India and hence he decided to re-launch the scheme as ‘Putriyon Ki Shadi Hetu Anudan Yojana’ in the year 2016.
The Akhilesh Yadav-led-Uttar Pradesh government not only re-launched the scheme but also doubled the amount of financial assistance given to people. Under the new scheme, women of the state are being provided financial assistance of Rs 20,000 for marriage and Rs 10,000 for medical aid.
According to Uttar Pradesh government, it is expecting to receive over 2 lakh applications in this financial year and for the Rs 400 crore has been allocated. As the scheme covers people of categories – SC, ST, OBC, minority as well as general – the government has fixed a target to reach about 60,500 SC beneficiaries, 650 ST, 77,000 OBC, 41,225 from the minority community and 20,625 from the general category.
In order to get benefits of this scheme, one can do online registration before and after 90 days of the marriage. While doing so, the candidate has to submit income certificate, photocopy of BPL card, Aadhar card, and the photocopy of bank passbook. Most importantly, the age of beneficiary girl candidate must be above 18 years. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
