


Table of Contents

UP Scheme for Adolescent Girls (SAG)UP SAG Scheme 2019 ComponentsUttar Pradesh SAG Scheme 2019 Coverage
CM Yogi Adityanath has launched Scheme for Adolescent Girls (SAG) in Uttar Pradesh in the state on 21 February 2019. The main objective of this SAG scheme is to take care of education of girls between 11 to 14 years of age till graduation level. The UP state govt. is going to ensure proper nutrition and special assistance for those girls who have left out their studies.
UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has also decided to observe 8th of every month as Adolescent Girls Day at Anganwadi centres across the state. 
Moreover, the state govt. of Uttar Pradesh is also planning to organize a nutrition campaign for adolescent girls on 8th March 2019.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

UP Scheme for Adolescent Girls (SAG)
Uttar Pradesh govt. has launched Scheme for Adolescent Girls (SAG) to take care of girl’s education who have left studies b/w 11 to 14 years of age till they complete graduation. The broad objectives of this SAG scheme in UP are to improve the nutritional, health and development status, promote awareness of health, hygiene, nutrition and family care. Moreover, SAG scheme would also provide them opportunities for learning life skills, going back to schools, help them in gaining a better understanding of social environment and take initiatives to become productive members of the society. 
UP SAG Scheme 2019 Components
There are 2 major components under the Scheme for Adolescent Girls (SAG) namely Nutrition Component and Non-Nutrition Component. The description of 2 components of the SAG scheme are as follows:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Nutrition Component – All the out of school girls b/w 11 to 14 years can take Home Ration or Hot Cooked Meal. There is a nutrition provision Rs. 9.50 per day which includes 600 calories along with 18‐20 gram of protein and recommended daily intake of micro-nutrients per day.

Non Nutrition Component – For all the out of school girls can avail IAS supplementation, Health check‐up and Referral services, Nutrition & Health Education (NHE), Counseling / Guidance on family welfare, ARSH, child care practices, Life Skill Education and accessing public services for 2-3 times a week.

Uttar Pradesh SAG Scheme 2019 Coverage
The Scheme for Adolescent Girls (SAG) in UP will cover all the out of school adolescent girls lying in the age group of 11 to 14 years. SAG Scheme was sanctioned by the central govt. in FY 2010 and is already implemented in 205 districts across the country. Afterwards, the govt. has expanded and universalize the SAG scheme in a phase wise manner in an additional 303 districts in 2017-18. 
The remaining districts were covered in FY 2018-19 with the simultaneous phasing out of the Kisahori Shakti Yojana. At present, around 508 districts in India are covered under the Scheme for Adolescent Girls (SAG). In the identified areas of remaining districts, KSY is implemented.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
