


Table of Contents

UP Old Age Pension List 2020-21 – How to CheckUP Vridha Pension Scheme – What is it?UP Old Age Pension Scheme Online Application Form 2020UP Old Age Pension Scheme List of Pensioners 2019-2020UP Old Age Pension Scheme 2020 List Of Documentssspy-up.gov.in – UP Old Age Pension Scheme Application Status
Samajik Kalyan Vibhag of Uttar Pradesh govt. is running old age pension scheme for senior citizens. The complete and latest list of UP old age pension scheme beneficiaries till the year 2020-21 is available at the official website at sspy-up.gov.in. Anyone can access this vridha pension yojana list 2020-21, 2019-20 & of previous years very easily. 
Under this Budhapa Pension Yojana, all elderly people of above 60 years of age whose name appears in the all India final BPL list are entitled to receive Rs. 300 per month. Eligible candidates can fill UP Old Age Pension Scheme 2020 online registration form or the beneficiaries can check pension status and bridha pensioners list of beneficiaries at the official website of social welfare department sspy-up.gov.in.
Old Age pension scheme list 2020-21 can be checked on the basis of district, block and gram panchayat. The complete list of beneficiaries of UP vridha pension yojana displays the registration number, name, father name, gender, age, category, amount and bank name of each beneficiary on quarterly basis.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

UP Old Age Pension List 2020-21 – How to Check
Checking the complete list of UP old age pension scheme beneficiaries or finding your name in the list is very easy. Just follow the below given procedure.

Visit the official Integrated Pension Portal of UP Government at http://sspy-up.gov.in.
The homepage will look similar to below given picture, now click on “वृद्धावस्था पेंशन” image on the homepage of the website as given below. Or directly click this link.
UP Vridha Pension Yojana Link

Now on the next page click on “पेंशनर सूची (2020-21)” link as shown below. Or directly click this link.
UP Old Age Pensioners List 2020-21

Now click the links under your district “जनपद”, block “विकासखण्डं”, gram panchayat “ग्राम पंचायत” as displayed in the below image.
Gram Panchayat Wise Bridha Pensioners List

After clicking the Gram Panchayat Name, click on the number given below the “कुल पेंशनर्स” under the your choice of quarter as instructed on the image below.
Quarterly Basis Budhapa Pensioners Data

After clicking on the number, you will see the complete list of pensioners in the selected village for the selected village, as shown in the below image.
List of Old Age Pension Scheme Beneficiaries

Beneficiary registration number, name, father name, gender, age, category, amount and bank name are completely visible in this list.

Applicants who are enrolled in the Old Age Pension Scheme of Uttar Pradesh or those who have recently applied for the the scheme can check their name online by following the simple procedure given above. The budhapa pension list 2020-21 or vridha pension report is now available containing the complete district-wise list of pensioners. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

As per the first quarter of 2020, there were a total number of 49,87,054 pensioners and the state govt. has released a total amount of Rs. 4,98,70,54,000 (Rs. 498 crore). Similar process is to be followed to check the pensioners list of previous years like 2019-20, 2018-19, 2017-18 and so on.
UP Vridha Pension Scheme – What is it?
Under UP Old Age Pension Scheme 2020, all the senior citizens of 60 to 79 years of age gets monthly pension of Rs. 300 while 80 years or above gets Rs. 500 p.m. All the eligible senior citizens will get Rs. 300 or Rs. 500 monthly only after completing the process of filling budhapa pension application form and approval of the concerned authorities of Samajik Kalyan Vibhag in UP. Moreover, the bridha person must not be getting benefits of Widow Pension Scheme, Viklang Pension Scheme or other pension schemes.
All the interested and eligible candidates now does not have to make unnecessary visits at the offices. Instead they can easily apply online to avail benefits of UP Vridhavastha Pension Yojana 2020. This up govt. old age pension scheme will provide financial assistance to the poor elderly citizens of UP to sustain their livelihood.
UP Old Age Pension Scheme Online Application Form 2020
Below is the complete procedure to apply online for UP Old Age Pension Scheme 2020:-

Firstly visit the official Integrated Pension Portal sspy-up.gov.in
On the homepage, click the “Old Age Pension” link in the main menu or photo with “वृद्धावस्था पेंशन” title or directly click this link
In the new window, click the “ऑनलाइन आवेदन करें” link
UP Old Age Pension Scheme 2020 Apply Online
In next window, click the “New Entry Form” link to open UP Old Age Pension Scheme Online Application Form.
Accordingly, UP Old Age Pension Scheme Application Form will appear as follows:-
UP Old Age Pension Scheme 2020 Application Form
Here candidates have to fill all the details and “Save” details. Next candidates can click the “Edit Saved Form / Final Submit” option to finally submit the application form.
Moreover, candidates can see the filled in application form through this link – View Application Form
Finally candidates can take printout of the finally submitted application form. For more details, candidates can see the User Manual.

Candidates must physically submit it to DSWO / DPO / DHWO office within 1 month from the date of Final Submission. All the candidates are advised to see the UP Old Age Pension Scheme application format through the link – Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Vridhavastha Pension Scheme Application Format
UP Old Age Pension Scheme List of Pensioners 2019-2020
The complete list of selected candidates under uttar pradesh old age pension scheme for financial year 2019-20 is now available. The list is available district / tehsil / village wise at sspy-up.gov.in. This list consists of the pensioners name, regiter number, amount, age, bank details, payment status and other details.
UP list of pensioners for vridhavastha pension scheme for the year 2019-20 can be viewed using the link given below:-
http://sspy-up.gov.in/OldAgePension/OAPReportDistrictVise_1920.aspx
IGNOAPS Scheme is currently providing benefits to 38,25,688 pensioners across the state.
UP Old Age Pension Scheme 2020 List Of Documents
Candidates must submit the following documents along with the old age pension scheme up application form:-


Documents
Maximum Size and Format


Recent Passport Size Photograph (फोटो)
20 kb in JPEG Format


Birth / Age Certificate (जन्म / आयुप्रमाण पत्र)
100 kb in PDF Format


Identity Proof (पहचान प्रमाण पत्र) – Voter Card / Aadhaar Card / Ration Card
100 kb in PDF Format


Bank Passbook (बैंक पासबुक)
100 kb in PDF Format


Income Certificate (आय प्रमाण पत्र)
100 kb in PDF Format


Uttar Pradesh Old Age Pension Scheme Eligibility – All the candidates who want to avail the benefits of Old Age Pension Scheme UP must fulfill the eligibility criteria. To view applicability, click – Old Age Pension Eligibility 
sspy-up.gov.in – UP Old Age Pension Scheme Application Status
All the applicants can consistently check status of their filled in application form on the same official website at sspy-up.gov.in. To check the applicant status, applicants requires a password and then make application login.
The complete procedure to check the UP Old Age Pension Scheme Application status is as follows:-

To check the application status of uttar pradesh old age pension scheme 2020, visit the following link – “आवेदन की स्थिति“.
Here candidates have to create a password first using their application registration number and bank account through the link – Registration for Password
UP Old Age Pension Scheme 2020 Application Status
Afterwards candidates can make “Login” using the generate password and application registration number.
UP Old Age Pension Scheme 2020 Login
Furthermore, candidates can click the detailed guidelines for checking application status.
All the details of Indira Gandhi National Old Age Pension Scheme (IGNOAPS) are given in this post. If any person finds any difficulty in understanding, then visit the official website http://sspy-up.gov.in/IndexOAP.aspx





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: sspy-up.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
