


Table of Contents

UP Mukhyamantri Krishak Durghatna Kalyan Yojana 2020Who Are UP Mukhyamantri Kisan Durghatna Kalyan Yojana BeneficiariesHow to Submit UP Mukhyamantri Kisan Durghatna Kalyan Yojana Application FormTime Frame to Apply for UP Mukhyamantri Kisan Durghatna Kalyan YojanaAssistance Amount under UP Mukhyamantri Kisan Durghatna Kalyan Yojana 2020Online Registration at UP Mukhyamantri Kisan Durghatna Kalyan Yojana PortalWhat is UP Mukhyamantri Krishak Durghatna Kalyan Yojana EligibilityOfficial Website for UP Mukhyamantri Krishak Durghatna Kalyan YojanaUP Mukhyamantri Krishak Durghatna Kalyan Yojana PDF Download
Uttar Pradesh has launched UP Mukhyamantri Krishak Durghatna Kalyan Yojana 2020 for the welfare of farmers. Under this accidental insurance scheme, the state govt. will provide financial assistance to family of farmer’s who die or become handicapped while working in fields. This new scheme will replace the existing UP Mukhyamantri Krishak Durghatna Jivan Bima Yojana. This decision was taken in the cabinet meeting presided over by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on 21 January 2020.
In case of death of farmer, his / her family will receive Rs. 5 lakh compensation under UP Mukhyamantri Krishak Durghatna Kalyan Yojana 2020. The new evidential insurance scheme is going to benefit around 2.38 crore farmers families. This scheme will also include Bataidars, who works in fields of other persons and share the crop after it is harvested. The state govt. has allocated Rs. 500 crore for UP Mukhyamantri Kisan Durghatna Kalyan Yojana in UP Budget 2020-21 presented on 18 February. 
The UP state govt. has also decided to implement Mukhyamantri Paryatan Samvardhan Yojana to boost tourism in state.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

UP Mukhyamantri Krishak Durghatna Kalyan Yojana 2020
Yogi Adityanath led UP govt. has decided to implement Mukhyamantri Krishak Durghatna Kalyan Yojana 2020. In this scheme, all the farmers who suffers accidental death / disability would be given compensation. This scheme will be applicable from the 14 September 2019. This accidental insurance scheme for farmers in UP is a 100% state govt. sponsored scheme which would be implemented through collectors.
Who Are UP Mukhyamantri Kisan Durghatna Kalyan Yojana Beneficiaries
This accidental insurance scheme will cover the following persons:-
— Account holder / Joint Account Holder Farmers.
— Farmers family includes Mother, Father, Husband, Wife, Girl Child, Boy Children, Daughter in Law, grandson and grand daughter.
— Landless farmers who perform farming on land taken at pattas.
— Bataidars who works on other person’s fields and shares crop after it is harvested. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

How to Submit UP Mukhyamantri Kisan Durghatna Kalyan Yojana Application Form
The farmers or their family members can write an application to District Collector. This application form must consists of all the detailed information about the incident happened to the farmers. The written application must be submitted to the Tehsil Office within the time frame specified below. After proper verification by authorities, the assistance amount would be transferred to farmers or their family members depending on the case.
Time Frame to Apply for UP Mukhyamantri Kisan Durghatna Kalyan Yojana
All the farmers or their family members can apply for UP Mukhyamantri Kisan Durghatna Kalyan Yojana within the given time frame:-
— Application needs to be submitted within 45 days.
— However, collector can give additional time frame of 1 month or 30 days.
— Applications submitted after 75 days would not be considered for assistance. 
Assistance Amount under UP Mukhyamantri Kisan Durghatna Kalyan Yojana 2020
In case the farmer death / disability, then their nominees will get Rs. 5 assistance under UP Mukhyamantri Kisan Durghatna Kalyan Yojana. If the farmer is already covered under PM Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, PM Suraksha Bima Yojana then the total amount to be given to farmer’s family would be the remaining amount. For eg- if a family gets 2 lakh from other insurance scheme, then the state govt. will pay remaining 3 lakh amount under UP Mukhyamantri Kisan Durghatna Kalyan Yojana to make it to a total of Rs. 5 lakh. 
Online Registration at UP Mukhyamantri Kisan Durghatna Kalyan Yojana Portal
To successfully implement the scheme, the UP govt. will soon launch a dedicated portal. People would be able to perform Online Registration at UP Mukhyamantri Kisan Durghatna Kalyan Yojana Portal. All those farmers or their family members who have chosen apply online method needs not visit the Tehsil office or write an application to collector. People can apply through both methods either online or offline as specified here. 

मुख्यमंत्री श्री @myogiadityanath जी ने मुख्यमंत्री कृषक दुर्घटना कल्याण योजना के सफल क्रियान्वयन हेतु धनराशि ₹500 करोड़ की स्वीकृति प्रदान की है।इस क्रम में प्रथम किश्त के रूप में ₹100 करोड़ जारी किया जा रहा है। @sanjaychapps1 @spgoyal @74_alok pic.twitter.com/Ewo1hUHJl5
— CM Office, GoUP (@CMOfficeUP) June 6, 2020
 
What is UP Mukhyamantri Krishak Durghatna Kalyan Yojana Eligibility
The candidates must fulfill the following conditions to become eligible for UP Mukhyamantri Krishak Durghatna Kalyan Yojana:-
— This scheme will cover farmers and their family members whose age is between 18 to 70 years.
— Farmers and their family must be a permanent resident of Uttar Pradesh.
Official Website for UP Mukhyamantri Krishak Durghatna Kalyan Yojana
Visit the official UP Chief Minister’s Office website at upcmo.up.nic.in. Go to either Cabinet decisions section – Click Here or Press Releases section – Click Here of 21 January 2020. 
UP Mukhyamantri Krishak Durghatna Kalyan Yojana PDF Download
The complete details of the Mukhyamantri Krishak Durghatna Kalyan Yojana are available in PDF format which can be checked here:-
http://information.up.nic.in/attachments/files/5e2733a4-d074-4a63-b831-62a00af72573.pdf





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: http://www.newsonair.com/News?title=UP-Govt-launches-Mukhyamantri-Krishak-Durghatna-Kalyan-Yojana&id=379135
SAVE AS PDF
