


Table of Contents

UP Viklang Pension List 2020-21 – How to CheckUP Viklang Pension Scheme – What is it?UP Viklang Pension Yojana – How to Apply OnlineUP Viklang Pension Scheme 2020 – List of Documentssspy-up.gov.in – Check Handicapped Pension Status
Viklang Kalyan Vibhag of Uttar Pradesh govt. is running viklang pension scheme for Persons with Disabilities (PWDs). The complete and latest list of UP viklang pension scheme beneficiaries till the year 2020-21 is available at the official website at sspy-up.gov.in. Anyone can access this viklang pension yojana list 2020-21, 2019-20 and of previous years very easily. 
Under this Viklang Pension Yojana, all the disabled persons (minimum 40% disability) above the age of 18 years whose name appears in the all India final BPL list are entitled to receive Rs. 500 per month. Eligible candidates can fill UP Viklang Pension Scheme 2020 online registration form or the beneficiaries can check pension status and pensioners list of beneficiaries at the official website of social welfare department sspy-up.gov.in.
Viklang pension scheme list 2020-21 can be checked on the basis of district, block and gram panchayat. The complete list of beneficiaries of UP Viklang pension yojana displays the registration number, name, father name, gender, age, category, amount and bank name of each beneficiary on quarterly basis.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

UP Viklang Pension List 2020-21 – How to Check
Checking the complete list of UP viklang pension scheme beneficiaries or finding your name in the list is very easy. Just follow the below given procedure.

Visit the official Integrated Pension Portal of UP Government at http://sspy-up.gov.in.
The homepage will look similar to below given picture, now click on “दिव्यांग पेंशन” image on the homepage of the website as given below. Or directly click this link.
Divyang Pension Yojana Link
Now on the next page click on “पेंशनर सूची (2020-21)” link as shown below. Or directly click this link.
UP Viklang Pensioners List 2020-21

Now click the links under your district “जनपद”, block “विकासखण्डं”, gram panchayat “ग्राम पंचायत” as displayed in the below image.
Gram Panchayat Wise Pensioners List
After clicking the Gram Panchayat Name, click on the number given below the “कुल पेंशनर्स” under the your choice of quarter as instructed on the image below.
Quarterly Basis Pensioners Data
After clicking on the number, you will see the complete list of pensioners in the selected village for the selected village, as shown in the below image.List of Divyang Pension Yojana Beneficiaries
Beneficiary registration number, name, father name, gender, age, category, amount and bank name are completely visible in this list.

Applicants who are enrolled in the handicapped Pension Scheme of Uttar Pradesh or those who have recently applied for the the scheme can check their name online by following the simple procedure given above. The viklang pension list 2020-21 or handicap pension report is now available containing the complete district-wise list of pensioners. Similar process is to be followed to check the name in pensioners list of previous years such as 2019-20, 2018-19, 2017-18 and so on.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Till the first quarter of 2020, there are a total number of 10,78,514 pensioners and the state govt. has released a total amount of Rs. 112,14,26,000 (Rs. 112 crore).
UP Viklang Pension Scheme – What is it?
Under UP Disability Pension Scheme 2020, all the specially abled people above 18 years of age gets monthly pension of Rs. 500 with effect from 1 January 2017. All the eligible handicapped people will get Rs. 500 monthly only after completing the process of filling physically handicapped pension application form and approval of the concerned authorities of Viklang Kalyan Vibhag in UP. Moreover, the handicapped person must not be getting benefits of Old Age Pension Scheme, Widow Pension Scheme or other pension schemes.
All the interested and eligible candidates now does not have to make unnecessary visits at the offices. Instead they can easily apply online to avail benefits of UP Viklang Pension Yojana 2020. This up govt. handicap pension scheme will provide financial assistance to the poor households.
UP Viklang Pension Yojana – How to Apply Online
Below is the complete procedure to fill online application form for UP Hadicapped / Viklangjan Pension Scheme 2020.

Firstly visit the official Integrated Pension Portal sspy-up.gov.in
On the homepage, click the “Handicap Pension” link in the main menu or photo with “”विकलांग जन पेंशन” title or directly click this link
In the new window, click the “ऑनलाइन आवेदन करें” link.
UP Handicap Pension Scheme Apply Online
Next click at the “New Entry Form” link to open UP Viklang Pension Scheme 2020 Online Application Form.
UP Viklang Pension Yojana 2020 Apply Online
Representative image for Physically Handicapped Pension Scheme Application Form will appear as follows.
Physically Handicapped Pension Application Form
Here candidates can fill personal details, bank details, income details, disability details and then click at “Save” button. Afterwards, candidates can click the “Edit Saved Form / Final Submit” option, view all their details and finally submit their application form.
Then applicants can see their filled in completed application form through this link – View Application Form
Finally all the applicants must take a printout of the finally submitted application form. For more details, candidates can see User Manual.

Candidates must physically submit it to DSWO / DPO / DHWO office within 1 month from date of Final Submission. All the candidates are advised to see the UP Disability Pension Scheme 2020 application format through the link – UP Handicapped Certificate Online Application Format
UP Viklang Pension Scheme 2020 – List of Documents
Candidates must submit the following documents along with the uttar pradesh handicap pension scheme application form:-
Documents List


Documents
Maximum Size and Format


Recent Passport Size Photograph (फोटो)
20 kb in JPEG Format


Birth / Age Certificate (जन्म / आयुप्रमाण पत्र)
100 kb in PDF Format


Identity Proof (पहचान प्रमाण पत्र) – Voter Card / Aadhaar Card / Ration Card
100 kb in PDF Format


Bank Passbook (बैंक पासबुक)
100 kb in PDF Format


Income Certificate (आय प्रमाण पत्र)
100 kb in PDF Format


Disability Certificate (विकलांगता प्रमाण पत्र)
100 kb in PDF Format


Candidates must also fill details of Disability Type, Disability Percentage (%), Disability Certificate No., Disability Certificate Issuing Date.
Uttar Pradesh Handicapped Pension Scheme Eligibility – All the widow applicants before applying online for Disability Pension Scheme in UP must fulfill the Viklangjan Pension Scheme eligibility criteria. To view applicability, click – Viklang Pension Scheme Eligibility Criteria
sspy-up.gov.in – Check Handicapped Pension Status
All the applicants can consistently check their application status on the same official website at sspy-up.gov.in. For viewing application status, applicants requires a password to make application login.
Steps to check the UP Disability Pension Yojana Application Status:-

All the candidates who wish to check the application status of uttar pradesh handicapped pension scheme 2020, visit the following link – “आवेदन की स्थिति“.
Step 1 – Firstly candidates needs to create a password using their application registration number and bank account through the link – Registration for Password (पासवर्ड बनाने हेतु पंजीकरण करें)
UP Handicapped Pension Scheme Application Status
Afterwards candidates have to make “Viklang Pension Login (आवेदन की स्तिथि जानने हेतु लॉगिन करें)” using the password generated in 1st step and application registration number.
UP Viklang Pension Login
Furthermore, candidates can click the “Guidelines (आवेदन की स्तिथि जानने हेतु दिशा निर्देश)” to check application status.

All the details of UP Viklang Pension Scheme 2020 are given in this post. If still any person finds any difficulty in understanding, then visit the official website http://sspy-up.gov.in/IndexHANDICAP.aspx





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
