
Dinesh Sharma, Deputy CM of Uttar Pradesh has prepared a draft for Fees Regulation Act 2017 of Private Schools. Subsequently, all the private schools in the state of UP cannot take desirable fees from the parents of the school students. Accordingly, this is a bold step of the state govt. against the arbitrary nature of the private schools. Now the private schools does not have the authority to increase the school fees as per their will.
This step will minimize the harassment of the parents by the school administration. In addition to this, the schools are also restricted to take admission fees every year from the students. Schools are not allowed to force students to purchase uniforms and books from certain specified shops. If the private schools does not follow these orders then, those schools will get punished according to the provisions of the draft of Fees Regulation Act.
Details of Draft of Fees Regulation Act 2017 of private Schools
The important features and highlights of this draft for UP Fees Regulation Act are as follows:-



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


This act prohibits the private schools to take arbitrary fees from the students.
In addition to this, private schools cannot increase the school fees as per their requirement.
Under this act, the private schools can only take the admission fees once.
Subsequently, students will not have to pay admission fees every year.
Moreover, Private schools also cannot force students to purchase Uniforms and Books from certain special shops.
Most important feature of this draft is that all the private schools will have to put the information about the fees on the official website as well as on the notice board of the school.
All the private schools not obeying the conditions (found guilty) will get punishment as per the provisions specified in the draft.

Provisions for Punishment in Fees Regulation Act 2017
This draft enforces strict conditions on the private schools so that the school administration cannot harass students and their parents. This draft will also ensure transparency and will lead to a better education system in the entire state of Uttar pradesh. The state govt. will give punishment to the private schools not obeying the conditions of the draft as given below:-

If schools disobeys the conditions (found guilty) for the first time, then state govt. will impose a fine of Rs 1 lakh on that school.
Subsequently, if the school is found guilty for the second time, then state govt. will impose a fine of Rs 5 lakh on that particular school.
Furthermore, if the school does not follow the rules and is found guilty for the third time also, then the state govt. will end the recognition / membership of that private school.

Uttar Pradesh state govt. has prepared this draft to put an end to the miseries of the parents whose students are studying in the private schools. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});






(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
