
उत्तर प्रदेश वोटर लिस्ट 2020 (PDF) अब सीईओ की आधिकारिक वेबसाइट ceouttarpradesh.nic.in पर उपलब्ध है, नयी मतदाता सूची में अपना नाम अपनी जानकारी या EPIC नंबर के आधार पर खोजें और वोटर ID कार्ड डाउनलोड करें

Table of Contents

UP CEO Voter List with Photo Download (PDF Electoral Roll 2020)UP Voter ID Card Download – Find Name Online in CEO Voters ListUP CEO Final Voter List – Track Application Status
Election Commission of India had announced Lok Sabha Chunav Dates in the country. In the Uttar Pradesh state, voting was held in 7 phases i.e on 11th April, 18th April, 23rd April, 29th April, 6th May, 12th May and 19th May 2019. Chief Electoral Officer has published UP CEO Voter List 2020, here people can perform name search in the PDF Electoral Roll, download Voter ID Card and track voters list application status at ceouttarpradesh.nic.in.
All the citizens can check their name in the district wise CEO Uttar Pradesh Voters List 2020 with Photo and download Voter ID Card. The updated Electoral Rolls with Photo are available in the PDF format where people can find their name in the CEO UP Voter List 2020 and can Download Voter ID Card before casting their vote.
The entire PDF file of the UP Electoral Roll (Voter List) 2020 is now available. Here citizens can perform manual searching in the UP Voter List 2020. Moreover, people can adopt a hassle free process and check their names online.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

UP CEO Voter List with Photo Download (PDF Electoral Roll 2020)
Below is the complete procedure to download the District wise CEO UP Voters List 2020 (Final Electoral Roll):-

Firstly, visit the official CEO Karnataka website at ceouttarpradesh.nic.in
At the homepage, click at the “Electoral Roll PDF” tab under ‘Voter’s Information System’ section or directly click at UP CEO Voter List 2020 link
The Uttar Pradesh PDF Electoral Roll Download Page will appear as shown below:-
Uttar Pradesh Electoral Roll PDF Download
Here candidates can select the district name, assembly constituency name and then click at “Show” option to view the district wise or AC wise UP Voters List 2020.
Uttar Pradesh Final Voter List 2020 Download PDF
Here candidates can click at the “View” option under ‘Electoral Roll PDF’ as shown below:-
Uttar Pradesh Search Voter List by Name
Here candidates can enter the ‘Captcha’ and then click at the “View / Download” option to open the UP Voters List with Photo which will appear as shown below:-
2020 UP CEO Voter List with Photo
Citizens can download this PDF electoral roll of Uttar pradesh.

In this downloaded UP PDF Voter List with Photo, citizens will have to find their name manually and download Voter ID Card to enable themselves to caste their important vote.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

UP Voter ID Card Download – Find Name Online in CEO Voters List
Below is the complete procedure to find your name online and download the Voter ID Card in Uttar Pradesh:-

All the people needs to visit the official website ceouttarpradesh.nic.in
At the homepage, click at the “Search Your Name in Electoral Roll” tab or directly click this link
The name find page of the UP CEO Voter List 2019-2020 will appear as shown below:-
Find Name UP CEO Voters List

UP CEO Final Voter List – Track Application Status
All the citizens can now track application status to include their name in the UP CEO Final Voter List 2020:-
https://www.nvsp.in/Forms/Forms/trackstatus
Here candidates can enter their Reference Number to view the Voter’s application status. For more details, visit the official website at http://www.ceouttarpradesh.nic.in/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: ceouttarpradesh.nic.in
SAVE AS PDF
