
उत्तर प्रदेश में बिजली कनेक्शन लेना अब और आसान हो सकेगा। उत्तर प्रदेश पावर कॉरपोरेशन ने "झटपट बिजली कनेक्शन योजना" की शुरुआत की है। इस योजना के तहत लोगों को बिना अधिक दौड़ भाग के बिजली कनेक्शन मिल जाएगा। इसके लिए लोगों को न तो कार्यालयों न ही अधिकारियों और कर्मचारियों के यहां चक्कर लगाने पड़ेंगे और ना ही किसी प्रकार के भ्रष्टाचार में फंसेंगे। योजना के तहत कनेक्शन लेने के लिए उत्तर प्रदेश पावर कॉरपोरेशन की वेबसाइट पर ऑनलाइन आवेदन करना होगा।UP Jhatpat Connection Yojana is started by the Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) to provide electricity connections in easy manner. Under this instant connection scheme, UPPCL will ensure quick processing of applications from below poverty line (BPL) and above poverty line (APL) families through an online process. Any consumer who wants to avail a new power connection can now apply online at upenergy.in/uppcl/en or at e-suvidha or jan suvidha centres.
All the consumers of BPL category (BPL families) need to pay only Rs. 10 for getting an electricity connection while APL families need to pay Rs. 100 for power connection of load between 1 KW to 25 KW.
Interested consumers can apply online for UP Jhatpat Connection Scheme to get new electricity connections at the official website.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Apply Online for New Electricity Connection in UP
Below is the complete process to apply online for new electricity connections (Jhatpat bijli connection) in Uttar Pradesh state:-

Firstly visit the official UPPCL website at upenergy.in/uppcl/en
At the homepage, click at the “Apply for New Electricity Connection (Jhatpat Connection)” under ‘Connection Services’ section.
Direct Link – UP Electricity Connection Apply Form Login
The electricity connection form login page in UP will appear as follows:-
UP New Electricity Connection Form Login
Afterwards, the applicants will have to click at the “New Registration” button to open the UP Jhatpat Connection Yojana Online Registration Form as shown below:-
UP Electricity Connection Online Registration Form
Here candidates can enter name, date of birth, e-mail ID, mobile number and click at “Register” button to complete the new electricity connection registration process.

All the applicants will then get their electricity connections installed at their preferred locations.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

UP Jhatpat Connection Yojana
This instant electricity connection scheme is a new move of UPPCL to address the repeated complaints of consumers who face harassment in getting power connection. Now, any person either of APL / BPL category can apply online at upenergy.in/uppcl/en to get an electricity connection by following an easy and swift process. BPL consumers can fill the online application form and make payment of Rs. 10 to avail new power connection. APL consumers can also apply online and submit amount of Rs. 100 for getting electricity connections of 1 KW to 25 KW supply.
All the applications submitted by the consumers will be immediately forwarded to the engineers who are concerned under a swift processing system for quick approval. An engineer will visit the spot and file an assessment for power connection within a stipulated time period. Consumers will have to make online application for Jhatpat Connection Yojana at uppcl.org to get electricity connections at the earliest. 
Moreover, govt. will soon start a new software to provide power connections to BPL / APL families. After submission of online applications, junior engineers (JE) will have to submit the report in a given time frame. In case JE doesn’t submits the report, then assistant engineers (AE) will approve the application and give electricity connections to the applicants. In case the applicants are not able to apply online, then applicants can apply through e-suvidha kendras and jan suvidha kendras.
Uttar Pradesh Jhatpat Yojana Electricity Connections
UPPCL aims to provide electricity connections to the consumers in hassle free manner and now applicants will not have to make unnecessary visits to the govt. offices. In this Jhatpat Connection Yojana, the main focus is on providing electricity connections to APL / BPL families in a dedicated time duration.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
