


Table of Contents

UP Widow Pension List 2020-21 – How to CheckUP Vidhwa Pension Scheme – What is it?UP Widow Pension Scheme – How to Apply OnlineUP Vidhwa Pension List of Pensioners 2019-2020UP Widow Pension Scheme 2020 List Of Documentssspy-up.gov.in – UP Widow Pension StatusUP Widow Pension Scheme – Age Ceiling Lifted by Yogi Aadityanath
Samajik Kalyan Vibhag of Uttar Pradesh govt. is running widow pension scheme for vidhwa women. The complete and latest list of UP widow pension scheme beneficiaries till the year 2020-21 is available at the official website at sspy-up.gov.in. Anyone can access this widow pension yojana list 2020-21, 2019-20 and of previous years very easily. 
Under this Vidhwa Pension Yojana, all widow women of any age whose name appears in the all India final BPL list are entitled to receive Rs. 300 per month. Eligible candidates can fill UP Widow Pension Scheme 2020 online registration form or the beneficiaries can check pension status and pensioners list of beneficiaries at the official website of social welfare department sspy-up.gov.in.
Widow pension scheme list 2020-21, 2019-20 and of previous years can be checked on the basis of district, block and gram panchayat. The complete list of beneficiaries of UP vidhwa pension yojana displays the registration number, name, father name, gender, age, category, amount and bank name of each beneficiary on quarterly basis.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

UP Widow Pension List 2020-21 – How to Check
Checking the complete list of UP widow pension scheme beneficiaries or finding your name in the list is very easy. Just follow the below given procedure.

Visit the official Integrated Pension Portal of UP Government at http://sspy-up.gov.in.
The homepage will look similar to below given picture, now click on “निराश्रित महिला पेंशन” image on the homepage of the website as given below. Or directly click this link.
UP Vidhwa Pension Yojana Link

Now on the next page click on “पेंशनर सूची (2020-21)” link as shown below. Or directly click this link.
UP Widow Pensioners List 2020-21

Now click the links under your district “जनपद”, block “विकासखण्डं”, gram panchayat “ग्राम पंचायत” as displayed in the below image.
Gram Panchayat Wise Widow Pensioners List

After clicking the Gram Panchayat Name, click on the number given below the “कुल पेंशनर्स” under the your choice of quarter as instructed on the image below.
Quarterly Basis Vidhwa Pensioners Data

After clicking on the number, you will see the complete list of pensioners in the selected village for the selected village, as shown in the below image.
List of Vidhwa Pension Yojana Beneficiaries

Beneficiary registration number, name, father name, gender, age, category, amount and bank name are completely visible in this list.

Applicants who are enrolled in the Widow Pension Scheme of Uttar Pradesh or those who have recently applied for the the scheme can check their name online by following the simple procedure given above. The vidhwa pension list 2020-21 or nirashrit mahila pension report is now available containing the complete district-wise list of pensioners. Similar process is to be followed to check the name in widow pension scheme list of 2019-20, 2018-19, 2017-18 and of previous years.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

As per the first quarter of 2020, there were a total number of 26,06,213 pensioners and the state govt. has released a total amount of Rs. 260,62,13,000 (Rs. 260 crore).
UP Vidhwa Pension Scheme – What is it?
Under UP Widow Pension Scheme 2020, all the widow above of any age gets monthly pension of Rs. 300 with effect from 1 January 2017. All the eligible vidhwa women will get Rs. 300 monthly only after completing the process of filling widow pension application form and approval of the concerned authorities of Samajik Kalyan Vibhag in UP. Moreover, the widow must not be getting benefits of Old Age Pension Scheme, Viklang Pension Scheme or other pension schemes.
All the interested and eligible candidates now does not have to make unnecessary visits at the offices. Instead they can easily apply online to avail benefits of UP Vidhwa Pension Yojana 2020. This up govt. widow pension scheme will provide financial assistance to the poor widow women who has not not done remarriage.
UP Widow Pension Scheme – How to Apply Online
The complete procedure to apply online for UP Vidhwa Pension Yojana / Nirashrit Mahila Pension Yojana has been specified below:-

Visit the official website of Integrated Pension Portal sspy-up.gov.in
On the homepage, click the “Widow Pension” link present in the menu or photo with “निराश्रित महिला पेंशन” title or directly click this link
UP Vidhwa Pension Yojana 2020 Apply Online
Next click the “ऑनलाइन आवेदन करें” link
UP Widow Pension Yojana 2020 Apply Online
In the new window, click the “New Entry Form” link to open UP Widow Pension Scheme Online Application Form.
Subsequently, UP Widow Pension Scheme Application Form will appear as follows:-
UP Widow Pension Scheme 2020 Online Application Form
Next candidates can fill personal details, bank details and income details and then “Save” details. Afterwards, candidates can click the “Edit Saved Form / Final Submit” option, view all their details and finally submit their application form.
Moreover, applicants can see their filled in completed application form through this link – View Application Form
Finally all the applicants must take a printout of the finally submitted application form. For more details, candidates can see User Manual.

Candidates must physically submit it to DSWO / DPO / DHWO office within 1 month from date of Final Submission. All the candidates are advised to see the UP Widow Pension Scheme application format through the link – Vidhwa Pension Yojana Application Format. 
UP Vidhwa Pension List of Pensioners 2019-2020
All the applicants who have previously applied for the uttar pradesh widow pension scheme 2019-20 can check their name in the Vidhwa Pension List UP 2019-20. This list of pensioners old age, vidhwa & viklang pension schemes is now available online district / tehsil / village wise at sspy-up.gov.in. This list consists of name of pensioner, father’s name, category, register number, amount, age, bank details, payment status and other details.
UP list of pensioners for vidhwa pension scheme for FY year 2019-20 can be viewed using the link given below:-
http://sspy-up.gov.in/WidowPension/WidowReportDistrictVise_1920.aspx
UP Widow Pension Scheme 2020 List Of Documents
Candidates must submit the following documents along with the old age pension scheme up application form:-


Documents
Maximum Size and Format


Recent Passport Size Photograph (फोटो)
20 kb in JPEG Format


Birth / Age Certificate (जन्म / आयुप्रमाण पत्र)
100 kb in PDF Format


Identity Proof (पहचान प्रमाण पत्र) – Voter Card / Aadhaar Card / Ration Card
100 kb in PDF Format


Bank Passbook (बैंक पासबुक)
100 kb in PDF Format


Income Certificate (आय प्रमाण पत्र)
100 kb in PDF Format


Death Certificate of Husband (पति की मृत्यु प्रमाण पत्र)
100 kb in PDF Format


Candidates must also fill details of total no. of children (adults and non-adults), date of death of husband and whether children are able to feed themselves or not. 
Uttar Pradesh Widow Pension Scheme Eligibility – All the widow applicants before applying online must fulfill the UP Widow Pension Scheme eligibility criteria. To view applicability, click – Widow Pension Scheme Eligibility Criteria 
sspy-up.gov.in – UP Widow Pension Status
All the applicants can consistently check their application status on the same official website at sspy-up.gov.in. For viewing application status, applicants requires a password to make application login.
Steps to check the UP Widow Pension Yojana 2020 Application Status:-

All the candidates who wish to check the application status of uttar pradesh widow pension scheme 2020, visit the following link – “आवेदन की स्थिति“.
Step 1 – Firstly candidates needs to create a password using their application registration number and bank account through the link – Registration for Password
UP Widow Pension Application Status
Afterwards candidates have to make “Vidhwa Pension Login” using the password generated in 1st step and application registration number.
UP Widow Pension Scheme 2020 Login
Furthermore, candidates can click the detailed guidelines to check application status.

UP Widow Pension Scheme – Age Ceiling Lifted by Yogi Aadityanath
Age limit has been lifted by Yogi Aadityanath under UP Widow Pension Scheme on 26 December 2018 as shown in the tweet below:-

pic.twitter.com/eALnutbHYr
— CM Office, GoUP (@CMOfficeUP) December 26, 2018

All the details of UP Widow Pension Scheme 2020 are given in this post. If still any person finds any difficulty in understanding, then visit the official website http://sspy-up.gov.in/IndexWIDOW.aspx





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: sspy-up.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
