
Uttar Pradesh govt. is going to launch KG to PG Scheme to provide free and compulsory education to all the students. This scheme will be launched in a few cities from the next academic session. Under this scheme, free education would be given to all students between Kindergarten (KG) to Post Graduate (PG) level in all government institutions. Yogi Aadityanath is soon going to make an announcement in this regard. 
UP Free Education Scheme is going to benefit poor people to a large extent. This information about the launch of UP KG to PG Scheme was given by Dinesh Sharma in a convocation ceremony of Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Rohilkhand University. Now all the students who drop out due to lower family income will be able to complete their studies and build their career.
People from the economically weaker sections will get most of the benefits of Free Education Scheme in UP. They would be able to earn their livelihood and contribute towards the growth of the society.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Uttar Pradesh KG to PG Scheme – Free Education in UP
All the students in the Uttar Pradesh will be given access to quality education from their KG standard till they complete their Post Graduate course. The state govt. focuses on making people understand the need of sending their children to the schools. Education is the most important part of one’s life without which no one can become a good human being. The state govt. has decided to make an academic calendar to ensure that studies takes place in institutions for atleast some fixed number of days.
UP govt. wants to start this KG to PG Scheme to make the complete education of students absolutely free. In addition to this, govt. has also decided to reduce the exam schedule for both UP Board and Degree Colleges. People who are denied of good education are always forced to live in backwardness and does not get the jobs as per their talent. So to provide them quality life, education is important.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Backward Class Students will get benefited and any hindrance in their path of education will be eliminated. The state govt. is also planning to perform counselling or giving advice to the parents in order to make them aware about the importance of education. Govt. is also planning to set a target for course completion in a certain specified number of days.
All the children belonging to economically backward classes can get absolutely free education and build a future for themselves. Accordingly the primary objective is to train people to enable them to get good jobs / placements in private or government sector. This free educational policy is a part of Yogi govt’s efforts to improve the standard of education.
Previously in the month of February, CM Yogi Aadityanath has announced to make education free upto Intermediate level (Class 12th). The state govt. has also passed a bill in the UP Assembly to check arbitrary hike in fees by private schools. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
