
Newly formed Uttar Pradesh government is planning to provide free homes to the poor homeless people in the state as per the reports on jagran.com. Housing and Urban Planning Department of Uttar Pradesh is reportedly working on preparing the plan of providing free housing units to the homeless poor of the state. Under the scheme the government would also provide affordable homes to people belonging to Low Income Group category of the society.
Free Housing Scheme for Poor in UP
Yogi government wants not one to live without home and rehabilitation for people living in slums. Since the people who do not have enough money to buy food, it is impossible for them to afford a home. Hence, the Yogi Adityanath Government has decided to provide free housing to such poor homeless families.
Chief Minister Yogi, who is also the housing minister has started working along with the officers of the department to prepare the proposal for free housing for poor. According to the Housing and Urban Planning Department, the state government would soon launch a new housing scheme for poor similar to housing schemes in Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra. A meeting with the officials from all the concerned departments would be held on 25th of April where the decision of launching the scheme can be taken.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The new housing scheme for poor may be named after Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay. Under the scheme, apart from free housing for poor, people belonging to LIG category would be provided homes at affordable cost.
The flagship housing scheme of central government to provide housing for all by 2022, Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana is already running in the state. Under the PMAY, central government is providing financial assistance of up to Rs. 1.5 lakh for EWS beneficiaries while state government is providing Rs. 1 Lakh. About 35 Lakh families have already been selected through SUDA for the benefits under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Samajwadi Awas Yojana which was started by the earlier government has failed to provide much benefits to the state residents. The scheme has been renamed as Mukhyamantri Awas Yojana. Under this scheme, development authority and Awas Vikas Parishad is constructing about 25 thousand homes.
Garib Kalyan Card for Housing Scheme Benefits
The new government would select the beneficiaries under the new housing scheme for poor based on the Garib Kalyan Card. The state government would provide Garib Kalyan Cards to the poor families for availing the benefits of all welfare schemes in the state.
DISCLAIMER: We do not take guarantee of the accuracy of content, it is sourced from http://www.jagran.com/uttar-pradesh/lucknow-city-now-the-chief-minister-yogi-will-give-free-ashes-to-the-poor-15894159.html
 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
