


Table of Contents

UP Aasan Kist Yojana / Kisan Kist Yojna 2020 (Rural)UP Kisan Aasan Kist Yojana Online Registration / Application FormUPPCL Aasan Kist Yojana / Kisan Kist Yojana (Rural) Apply Online BenefitsUP Rural Aasan Kist Yojana – Easy Installments for Farmers
Uttar Pradesh government has started UP Kisan Asan Kist Yojana (किसान आसान किस्त योजना) from 1 February 2020. Under this UP Easy Installment Scheme, farmers can pay their outstanding tubewell electricity bills in installments (kishts). UPPCL is inviting UP Aasan Kist Yojna / Kisan Kist Yojna (Rural) online registration / application form at www.upenergy.in/uppcl or www.uppcl.org. Even the apply online process for registration of Aasan Kist Yojna (Urban) has been started, check details here.
As per the Energy department of Uttar Pradesh, the interest waiver on tubewells bill would also remain applicable. Each farmer can now avail the benefits of aasaan kisht yojna by applying online at the nearest CSC or other methods as below. Only those farmers who pay their tubewell electricity bills on timely basis would only be able to avail this UP Farmers Easy Installment Scheme benefits. This UP Kisan Asan Kist Yojana is going to benefit both electricity suppliers as well as farmers. 
Electricity supplier companies will get their bill dues recovered while farmers can pay their bills in easy installments with no interest charged. The main aim of the UP govt. is to realize the vision of Doubling Farmers Income by 2022.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

UP Aasan Kist Yojana / Kisan Kist Yojna 2020 (Rural)
Energy department of UP govt. has started the facility of paying outstanding electricity bills in easy installment under UP Kisan Asan Kist Yojana 2020. This facility comes up with the interest waiver on bills of farmers. All the farmers will not have to pay any interest on tubewell electricity bills till 31 January 2020. Only the principal amount is to be paid on bills till 31 Jan 2020 in 6 easy installments. 
UP Kisan Aasan Kist Yojana Online Registration / Application Form
Here is the complete process to make online registration & fill application form for UP Kisan Aasan Kist Yojna 2020:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Firstly visit the official website of Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation limited at www.upenergy.in/uppcl or https://www.upenergy.in/uppcl
At the homepage, go to the “Bill Payment” section and click at the “Registration for Aasan Kist Yojna / Kisan Kist Yojna (Rural)” link as shown here:-
UPPCL Kisan Kist Yojna Apply Online

Then make consumer login (उपभोक्ता लॉगिन – अपना नवीनतम बिल देखने एवम् भुगतान करने की सुविधा। पूर्व बिल,मीटर पठन एवम् भुगतान देखने और डाउनलोड करने की सुविधा भी उपलब्ध हैं। आसन किस्त योजना/ किसान किस्त योजना के लिए लॉगिन करें) by clicking at the “लॉगिन” link as shown below:-
UP Kisan Aasan Kist Yojana Consumer Login

Upon clicking at the “लॉगिन” link, a new consumer login page will appear where existing users can login using account number and password. If you are a new user, click “Register Now” to create your username and password to access this secure application as below:-
UP Kisan Kist Yojana Login Register

Afterwards, the UPPCL Aasan Kist Yojana Rural online registration form 2020 will appear as shown below:-
UPPCL Aasan Kist Yojana Rural Online Registration Form

Here applicants can enter the account number, service connection number, password, name, mobile number, e-mail ID and click at the “Register” button to complete the UPPCL Kisan Aasan Kist Yojana online registration process.
Finally, applicants can make login and fill in the remaining UP Kisan Aasan Kist Yojana online application form to complete the apply online process.

UPPCL Aasan Kist Yojana / Kisan Kist Yojana (Rural) Apply Online Benefits
Here are the important benefits of making online registration for UPPCL Aasan Kist Yojna / Kisan Kist Yojna (Rural):-
A) Online account access is FREE and offers 24/7 convenience
B) View your bill
C) Complaint/ Service Request registration
D) Customize notifications and payment options
E) Access billing &consumption history
F) Find helpful calculators and energy-saving tips specific to your home or business
G) Set reminders or alerts to help you stay within your budget
H) Self Bill Generation Help
UP Rural Aasan Kist Yojana – Easy Installments for Farmers
Under UP Kisan Asan Kist Yojana (किसान आसान किस्त योजना), farmers can pay the principal amount of their outstanding electricity bills between 1 Feb to 29 February 2020. Farmers can avail benefits of UP Kisan Asan Kisht Yojana at their nearest CSC, sub-divisional officer or executive engineer officer. The farmers needs to submit 5% amount of their outstanding electricity bills or minimum Rs. 1500 along with their current tubewell electricity bill. 
Afterwards, farmers will get an option of making payment of outstanding bijli bill in 6 easy intallments. Each month, farmers needs to submit their installment along with that month’s electricity bill. The interest of the farmer will be waived on timely payment of all the dues. The previous phase of UP Asan Kist Yojana was ending on 31 January 2020 which is now extended till 29 February 2020. Till date, more than 20 lakh farmers have taken the benefits of this UP Easy Installment Scheme for payment of Tubewell Electricity bills.
All those consumers who have received notice for recovery of bills payment under section 5 can also take benefits of UP Kisan Asan Kist Yojana 2020. At the same time, the litigants with the cases pending in the courts will also be able to benefit under the UP Aasaan Kisht Scheme. Farmers needs to submit an affidavit that he will pay all the bills after the final settlement of dues. Bill amendment is also proposed under the UP Kisan Asan Kist Yojana to benefit farmers. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://www.upenergy.in/uppcl
SAVE AS PDF
