
Uttar Pradesh government is going to launch Gau Gram Scheme across the state. Subsequently, govt. will open several cowsheds to tackle the problem of farmers caused due to stay cows. Accordingly, the state govt. is planning to open various gaushalas in each district. In the first phase, govt. will start implementing this scheme in 108 villages in Vrindavan.
This scheme for cows will help in preventing them for being slaughtered. In addition to this, this scheme will enable farmers to rear cows and earn additional income through the sale of their milk, urine and cow dung.
In this scheme, every farmer will get two high milk yielding cows of indigenous breed. Hasanand Gauchar Bhoomi Trust is the office bearer for this scheme.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Uttar Pradesh Gau Gram Scheme
The important features and highlights of this scheme are as follows:-

UP Gau Gram Yojana is an essential move for the protection and conservation of cows.
Farmers can make extra earnings from cow milk which is a good source of protein and even from cow urine which farmers can use as organic manure.
Initially, govt. will open cowsheds in urban areas and afterwards, govt. will open these in various tehsils and villages. Moreover, govt. will seek support from the common people to support such cowsheds.
The primary objective of this Gau Gram Scheme is to prevent cows from slaughtering and to open cowshed for their proper rearing.
In this scheme, govt. will provide financial assistance to open cow sheds in gaushalas. Accordingly, UP govt. is planning to open more gaushala in the state in a phased manner. 
Hasanand Gochar Bhoomi Trust will promote opening of cowsheds under “Mahamana Gogram Yojana” and will accommodate 10,000 cows of indigenous breed. 

CM Yogi Aadityanath has laid the foundation stone of Mahamana Gau Gram Scheme in Vrindavan. Moreover, govt. is also planning to launch a new scheme to provide 2 cows of indigenous breed to each farmer. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Henceforth, govt. will make efforts for the supply of cow’s milk, urine and dung in Delhi and other metro cities. Furthermore, govt. is also planning to develop 108 villages in Vrindavan.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
