
Uttar Pradesh govt. has announced Kanya Sumangla Yojana in UP Budget 2019-20 for girl child. This scheme aims to improve the level of health and education in women and bringing a positive change in the mindset towards them. UP Kanya Sumangla Scheme 2019 is based on the Ladli Laxmi Yojna of the previous BJP led Madhya Pradesh government. 
In UP Kanya Sumangla Yojana, pre-determined amount would be deposited at the regular intervals in the name of girl child to aid her education and marriage. This amount would be transferred direcly into the bank account of the girls through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode. The drop out rate of the girls would also be reduced through this scheme.
The state govt. of Uttar Pradesh has allocated Rs. 1200 crore for the successful implementation of this Kanya Sumangla scheme. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

UP Kanya Sumangla Yojana 2019
The UP Kanya Sumangla Scheme is going to be implemented from 1 April 2019 and the scheme details are yet to be worked out. CM Yogi Adityanath stated that a pre-determined amount will be deposited in the bank accounts of girl child at the following durations:-

1st Installment at the time birth of girl child
2nd Installment at the time of vaccination
3rd Installment at the time of admission of girls in Class I
4th Installment when a girl reaches class VI
5th Installment when a girl reaches class IX
6th Installment at the time the girl starts graduation
7th Installment at the time of girl’s wedding

The state govt. will ensure that the girls would get handsome amount by the time she graduates or get married. This scheme of UP govt. will work in collaboration with the central govt’s “Beti Bachao Beti Padhao” scheme. Previously, Akhilesh led UP govt. had started Kanya Vidya Dhan Scheme in which all the girls who clears the intermediate under UP board were given one time assistance of Rs. 30,000. This Kanya Vidya Dhan Scheme was later extended to girls passing out from Madrassas.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Mayawati led BSP govt. in Uttar Pradesh had 2 schemes for girl child namely Mahamaya Garib Balika Ashirvad Yojana and Savitri Bai Phule Balika Shiksha Madad Yojana. This schemes were launched to ensure that girls are no longer a burden on the families and needs to be sent to school. 
Various other state govt’s like Bihar has started distributing cycles to school girls to encourage them to attend schools regularly. UP Kanya Sumangla Yojana draws its inspiration from MP Ladli Laxmi Yojana which offers annual National Savings Certificate of Rs. 6,000 in the name of beneficiaries. This is followed by the fixed amount deposits at regular intervals till the time the girls got graduated or got married. This amount is paid as a lump sum amount through DBT mode in girls bank accounts.
However, it is still not clear how application forms would be invited for UP Kanya Sumangla Yojana and how much amount each girl would get. The details are still being worked out which is to be put before cabinet and the scheme has to be implemented from 1 April 2019. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
