
Uttar Pradesh govt. has announced rehabilitation package for Triple Talaq Victims women to provide them Rs. 6,000 per annum. The payment for Yearly Pension Scheme for 3 Talaq victim in UP would be made to each affected women to make them become self reliant. Yogi Adityanath has given directions to Home, Social Welfare & Minority Affairs department to prepare the plan. 
This scheme for UP Triple Talaq Victims will also provide an insurance coverage of Rs. 5 lakh for victims and their children. The insurance coverage will follow the similar lines of flagship Ayushman Bharat Yojana apart from free legal aid. UP CM Yogi Adityanath has announced to give an annual pension of Rs 6,000 per year to Muslim women who have been given triple talaq by their husbands.
UP CM Yogi Adityanath has announced this package at an event where he met Triple Talaq Victims of the state. Shia religious leader Maulana Saif Abbas welcomed the Yearly Pension Scheme for 3 Talaq Victims in UP but said that the state govt. should look more into the education of children and their problem of housing which will be better than giving Rs. 500 per month as pension.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

UP Triple Talaq Victims to Get Rs. 6,000 p.a
The state govt. of Uttar Pradesh is going to provide Rs. 6,000 per year to Triple Talaq Victims. This package also includes Rs. 5 lakh insurance cover similar to PM Jan Arogya Yojana. UP govt. will take strict action against the police personnel who have not handled cases of 3 talaq as per new law. CM Yogi Adityanath has given some details about the rehabilitation plan which are as follows:-

Women who are educated must be absorbed within system and given employment as per their qualifications.
Women who are thrown out of their homes will be provided houses under PM Awas Yojana or UP Mukhyamantri Awaas Yojna.
The state govt. is also looking to link them with Waqf properties across the state.
UP govt. will make arrangements to provide 3 talaq victims with shelter and education under various schemes.
All such women should be covered under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana or under Chief Minister Arogya Scheme.
UP Triple Talaq Victims 6000

Every Triple Talaq victim was asked to submit her details to additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Avasthi who is given responsibility to monitor each case. A total number of 127 applications were received from Triple Talaq victims. Proper schemes must be implemented for the overall development of the society and no person should feel neglected.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

In the previous 1 year, Uttar Pradesh Police had filed 273 cases of triple talaq victims. Similarly, UP govt. will take strict action against those Hindu men who have abandoned / harassed their 1st wife and go for 2nd marriage. The state govt. will show no leniency towards such people as UP govt. works without bias.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/up-triple-talaq-victims-to-get-rs-6000-a-year-support-yogi/articleshow/71303026.cms
SAVE AS PDF
