


Table of Contents

UP Ration Card New List 2020 Download – Find Name at fcs.up.nic.inFind Name Online in UP Ration Card APL / BPL List 2019-2020UP BPL / Antyodaya Ration Card Holder List – Check Name OnlineUP New Ration Card 2019-2020 Application Form – Download LinkList of Documents for New Ration Card in Uttar PradeshUttar Pradesh Ration Card Helpline Number
UP New Ration Card List 2020 | UP Ration Card Suchi Download | UP APL / BPL List Name Find Online | UP NFSA Beneficiary List Download | UP BPL / Antyodaya Ration Card Holder List | UP TPDS Ration Card Holder List 
Food and Civil Supplies Department of Uttar Pradesh has released the district wise UP Ration Card New List 2019-2020 online at fcs.up.gov.in (उत्तर प्रदेश राशन कार्ड सूची ऑनलाइन). All the citizens who had previously made fresh registrations for ration card can now check their name online or by downloading the list of eligible National Food Security Act (NFSA) beneficiaries.
UP govt. has made this ration card new list 2019-2020 public in order to make the process of finding name of beneficiaries easier. People can also find their name online in the NFSA eligible beneficiaries list 2019-20. People can now even find their name in the ration cards for below poverty line (BPL) / Antyodaya beneficiaries generated by TPDS. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Ration Card is an essential document for the APL / BPL people to take benefits of most govt. schemes. It is important to note that ration card holders only can purchase Ration at subsidized rates from Ration Shops located nearby.
UP Ration Card New List 2020 Download – Find Name at fcs.up.nic.in
All the candidates who had previously applied for the new ration card now check their name in UP ration card list 2019-2020 for NFSA beneficiaries as per the procedure below:- 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Visit the official website of Food & Civil Supplies dept. (Aapurti portal) at fcs.up.gov.in
At the homepage, click at the “एन.एफ.एस.ए की पात्रता सूची” (Eligibility List of NFSA) link under the “महत्त्वपूर्ण लिंक्स” (Important Links) section.
UP Ration Card New List
Accordingly, the entire UP district wise ration card list 2019-20 will appear as shown below:-
UP Ration Card District Wise List Download
Here candidates have to click appropriate district, then their town, next ration card numbers in front of shopkeeper’s name to open the Ration card list of beneficiaries.
Finally, candidates can check their name manually in the opened list as shown below:-
UP Ration Card List Online – उत्तर प्रदेश राशन कार्ड सूची ऑनलाइन
Furthermore, candidates can take a printout of the UP Ration Card List 2019-2020 for any future reference.

In the displayed UP ration card new list 2020-2021, citizens can find their name manually or can press “CTRL + F” button to find their name easily.
Those candidates whose name is not present in the gram Panchayat wise UP ration card list need not worry. Such candidates can apply for inclusion of name in new ration card list (राशन कार्ड सूची) in the prescribed format at the official Aapurti portal.
Find Name Online in UP Ration Card APL / BPL List 2019-2020
उत्तर प्रदेश राशन कार्ड नई सूची 2020 में अपना नाम खोजें
In case the candidates finds it difficult to understand the name find process in UP Ration Card List, then he / she can find their name Online in the UP Ration Card New List 2019-2020 and 2020-2021.

Visit the same official website http://fcs.up.gov.in/FoodPortal.aspx
To directly find name in UP Ration Card New List 2019-2020, candidates can click this link at the homepage as shown in the figure:-
fcs.up.gov.in Ration Card List Online
Now the new UP Ration Card List 2019-20 find online page will appear as shown below:-
Find Name UP Ration Card List Online
Here candidates can select their district, area, card type, name of head of the family to find name online in the Ration Card New List 2019-20 (उत्तर प्रदेश राशन कार्ड नई सूची 2019-20) in Uttar Pradesh.

Till date there are around 3.14 crore NFSA ration card holders and around 41 lakh Antyodaya Ration card holders in the state of Uttar Pradesh, thus totaling to around 3.55 crore ration card holders (as on 6 January 2019).
UP BPL / Antyodaya Ration Card Holder List – Check Name Online
All the BPL and Antyodaya ration card holders can find their name online in the list generated by TPDS, here is the complete procedure:-

Visit the official website – fcs.up.gov.in/FoodPortal.aspx
At the homepage, scroll over the “बी.पी.एल./अंत्योदय कार्ड खोजें” link in the header and then click at the “TPDS के अन्तर्गत जारी हुए बी०पी०एल०/अन्त्योदय राशन कार्ड खोजें” link.
Afterwards, the UP BPL / Antyodaya Ration Card Holders list will appear as shown below:-
UP BPL Antyodaya Ration Card List
Here candidates can enter the name, area, town, gram panchayat, card type and other details and click at the “खोजें” button to open the UP BPL / Antyodaya Ration Card List

UP govt. is going to issue new ration cards for all the citizens whether BPL or APL candidates. It is necessary for citizens to become either Antyodaya or NFSA ration card holder to get ration through the distributors at various ration shops. Furthermore, all the citizens can check their name online in the UP Ration Card New List 2019-20 at the official website of Food and Civil Supplies Department of Uttar Pradesh.
UP New Ration Card 2019-2020 Application Form – Download Link
To make fresh application for the Ration Card in Uttar Pradesh, candidates can directly download the application form through the link given below:-
Download UP Ration Card Application Form
The application form for the New Ration Card will appear as shown in the figure:-
UP Ration Card Application Form Download
UP Ration Card Apply Online New Form Download (Rural PDF)
UP Ration Card Apply Online New Form Download (Urban PDF)
List of Documents for New Ration Card in Uttar Pradesh
The following documents are necessary to submit the Ration Card application form:-

Recent Passport Size Photograph
Aadhaar Card
Previous Electricity Bills
PAN Card
Gas Connection
Bank Passbook
Caste Certificate
Income Certificate

Uttar Pradesh Ration Card Helpline Number
So, now since we have explained you the how to find your name the existing ration card list check your name or download ration card, for any other information or complain, please call ah the helpline numbers given below.
Toll Free Number: 1800 1800 150 and 1967
UP govt. is going to issue new ration cards for all the citizens whether BPL or APL candidates. This is necessary for getting ration through the distributors at various ration shops. Furthermore, all the citizens can check their name in the UP Ration Card New List 2018-2019-2020 at the official website of Food and Civil Supplies Department of Uttar Pradesh.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
