
Uttar Pradesh government has launched Mukhyamantri Jan Arogya Yojana 2019 which is a new healthcare scheme for its citizens. This sub-scheme is a part of the central govt’s mega health scheme namely Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY). UP Mukhya Mantri Jan Arogya Abhiyan is going to provide free medical facilities to poor families who are not covered under the flagship Ayushman Bharat Yojana popularly known as Modicare.
UP Mukhyamantri Jan Arogya Yojana is going to benefit nearly a million households or 5.6 million beneficiaries who are deprived of Ayushman Bharat – National Health Protection Scheme (NHPS). Yogi Adityanath led UP govt. has allocated Rs. 111 crore for the Mukhya Mantri Jan Arogya Abhiyan in Annual Budget 2019-20. 
Undr this UP Mukhyamantri Jan Arogya Scheme, the state govt. will provide free medical cover of upto Rs. 5 lakh per family per annum to the beneficiaries.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

UP Mukhyamantri Jan Arogya Yojana 2019
PM Jan Arogya Abhiyan is estimated to cover around 1.18 crore poor families (6 crore people) under UP PMJAY Scheme against the PAN India beneficiary count of around 50 crore. Now around 56 lakh more people would get free medical treatment upto Rs. 5 lakh in govt. / govt. aided / private hospitals. Along with the Ayushman Bharat Yojana, the state govt. will now cover 6.56 crore people through UP Mukhyamantri Jan Arogya Yojana. 
In the UP state Budget, the state govt. has also allocated Rs. 1,298 crore for Ayushman Bharat Yojana. Moreover, the state govt. has made a provision of Rs. 291 crore for Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana. In addition to this, govt. has setup Rs. 47.50 crore for setting up of 100 bed hospitals across the entire state.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Yogi Adityanath has one-fifth of the country’s population and any improvement in UP healthcare index is going to have a positive impact on India. The state govt. is focusing on the use of the modern technology such as telemedicine to reach out to remote areas in order to provide adequate medical and healthcare facilities.
Till date, around 53 districts of Uttar Pradesh had been benefited under the National Mobile Medical Unit programme. In addition, the state govt. has launched 750 wellness or Arogya centres with the total count rising to 2,150 in the state. There were only 13 govt. medical colleges before 2014 but during the past 4 to 5 years, 15 new ones were coming up. This also includes a cancer institute, 2 AIIMS and AIIMS equivalent facility.
Yogi Adityanath also lay emphasis on savings cost on the procurement of medicines and other medical equipment in order to provide proper healthcare to poor and other deprived sections of the society. The official notification is available through the link below:-
http://information.up.nic.in/attachments/files/5c793c5a-6338-47c1-b075-7b960af72573.pdf





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
