


Table of Contents

UP Mukhyamantri Kisan & Sarvhit Bima Yojana Form PDF DownloadMukhyamantri Durghatna Bima Yojana – Eligibility for ApplicationUP Kisan Durghatna Bima Yojana BenefitsReferences
Uttar Pradesh govt. invites application forms for UP Mukhyamantri Kisan & Sarvhit Bima Yojana. Under this scheme, farmers and their family members of the state can avail Durghatna Bima (Accidental Insurance) upto Rs. 5 lakh. People can now make online registrations for Bima Care Card and can also download Mukhyamantri Kisan & Sarvhit Bima Yojana form pdf. The official website to download UP Kisan Durghatna Bima Yojana Online Form is www.1520up.com 
UP Mukhyamantri Kisan & Sarvhit Bima Yojana will cover the incidents of road / air / rail accidents, collision, injury due to fall, leakage of gas, mongoose (Nevla), injury due to cylinder burst, dog bite, bite and attack by an wild animal, burning, drowning, flowing in the flood, cutting the hands and legs due to accident, earthquake and lightening. Upon implementation, this scheme will benefit 12 crore people in mostly rural areas. 
Latest Update – Now a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh would be given in case of death of family member of farmer. If the son or daughter or daughter in law or spouse of farmer dies due to an accident, the same compensation would be given. This means that all family members of farmers are now covered. This scheme to benefit 2.5 crore farmer’s families in Uttar Pradesh.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Mukhyamantri Durghatna Bima Yojana will provide benefits upto Rs. 5 lakh to insured people and their family members in case of any accident. 
UP Mukhyamantri Kisan & Sarvhit Bima Yojana Form PDF Download
Below is the complete procedure to download UP Mukhyamantri Kisan & Sarvhit Bima Yojana Form PDF:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Visit the official website www.1520up.com
At the homepage, scroll over the “मुख्यमंत्री किसान एवं सर्वहित बीमा योजना डाउनलोड” link in the header and then click at the “Claim Form”.
The download the Claim Form under the Kisan Durghatna Bima Yojana. The direct links for downloading purpose is given below:-

Claim Form 1 – In the event of accidental death (before making of Kisan Durghatna Bima Care Card) of Head of Family. It will appear as follows:-
Mukhyamantri Kisan & Sarvhit Bima Online Claim Form
Claim Form 2 – In case of disability of head of family due to accident (before making of Kisam Bima Yojana Card). It will appear as follows:-
Kisan Durghatna Bima Yojana Online Form
Claim Form 3 – This form is to be filled to avail primary treatment (First Aid benefits) in Non-Empanelled hospitals before making of Bima Care Card. Patient Admission in such hospitals is necessary. Maximum benefit upto Rs. 25,000 can be availed. Insurance Companies will reimburse this amount after treatment if completed.
Mukhyamantri Durghatna Bima Yojana Claim Form
Claim Form 4 – This form is to be filled to avail treatment in Empanelled hospitals before making of Bima Care Card. Patient admission in hospitals is necessary.
UP Kisan Durghatna Bima Online Form
Claim Form 5 – In the event of accidental death (after making of Kisan Durghatna Bima Care Card) of Head of Family.
Claim Form 6 – In case of disability of head of family due to accident (After making of Kisam Bima Yojana Card).



Candidates can also check – UP Mukhyamantri Kisan & Sarvhit Bima Yojana Application Form Format. Candidates can download the Kisan Bima Yojana Online Forms through the above mentioned links in case of any mishappening. This scheme will ensure that each farmer or poor person gets insurance in any event of accident. 
Mukhyamantri Durghatna Bima Yojana – Eligibility for Application
All the people who wants to avail this insurance facility must fulfill the following eligibility criteria:-

Head of the family, either male or female, falling in the age group of 18 to 70 years, and
He / She must be registered as account holder / co-account holder in Khatauni*, and
The annual family income from all sources must be less than Rs. 75,000 per annum.

*Khatauni is the list of total village land owned by head of the family / single family using Agriculture related legal document (Khasras).
UP Kisan Durghatna Bima Yojana Benefits
Candidates can avail the following benefits through this Accidental Insurance Scheme:-

In case of accidental death / disability of the head of Family, insurance company will provide Rs. 5 lakh.
In case of accident, people can avail treatment benefits of upto Rs. 2.5 lakh. If needed, then 1 lakh additional assistance would be provided.
Also, the accidents occurring outside the vicinity of the state would also be covered.
People can avail free treatment in all govt. hospitals and empanelled private hospitals with more than 30 beds. Around 1540 hospitals will provide free treatment.
Facility of primary treatment upto Rs. 25,000 to accident patients in all nearest hospitals (with min 10 beds).
UP Mukhyamantri Kisan Evam Sarvhit Bima Yojana

For all other details, click at the link – UP Kisan Bima Yojana Details (PDF)
References
For all other details, please visit the official website http://www.1520up.com/ 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
