


Table of Contents

Kisan Uday Yojana – FeaturesEssential Features of Pump SetsImplementation of Kisan Uday Yojana
Uttar Pradesh Government is going to launch Kisan Uday Yojana for farmers. Subsequently, farmers will receive energy efficient pumps sets of different capacities. Accordingly, this scheme will save energy and helps in achieving the target of “Power for All”. Under this scheme, the state govt. is going to provide 10 lakh pumps to the farmers till the financial year 2022.
This scheme is going to reduce the dependence of farmers on the conventional power pumps which utilizes 35% more energy. Moreover, farmers can turn the pump on or off through their cell phones. In addition to this, the farmers will also get free of cost maintenance for the upcoming 5 years.
This scheme is going to benefit all citizens as the common man can utilize the energy which is saved from the use of these energy efficient pumps. Kisan Uday Yojana will also lowers the input cost in agriculture and will also raise the income of the farmers. UP state govt. has launched this scheme on 23 December 2017.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Kisan Uday Yojana – Features
The important features and highlights of this scheme are as follows:-

UP state govt. has launched this scheme in Baghpat for farmers.
Subsequently, govt. will provide energy efficient pumps to the farmers to save energy in agricultural activities.
This scheme is to achieve target of “Power For All” till 2022.
In addition to the energy conservation, Kisan Uday Yojana will also reduce the input cost for farming which will further improve individual income of the farmers.
Moreover, these pump sets given to the farmers will increase savings as these pumps consumes 35% lesser energy as compared to the other traditional pumps.
Furthermore, farmer’s can take benefits of the UP govt’s recent move to reduce the per unit cost for power.

This scheme is going to benefit the farmers to a large extent by raising their income from agricultural activities. Moreover, this scheme will also conserve the energy for various other purposes.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Essential Features of Pump Sets
The essential features of the pumps to get distributed are as follows:-

Govt. will provide energy efficient pump sets in 2 variants according to their capacity – 5.0 Horse Power (HP) and 7.5 Horse Power (HP).
Subsequently, UP govt. will also provide smart kit which will enable farmers to switch On / Off these pumps from their phones.
Finally, the state govt. will also bears the maintenance cost of these pumps for next 5 years.

Implementation of Kisan Uday Yojana
UP state govt. launches this scheme on the birth anniversary of former PM, Chaudhary Charan Singh (23-Dec-2017). Subsequently, the state govt. will implement this scheme in phases to achieve distribution of 10 lakh pumps till 2022. Govt. will cover the following districts in 1st phase:-
a) Ghazipur
b) Gorakhpur
c) Varanasi
d) Ambedkarnagar
e) Mathura
f) Aligarh
This scheme will also provide benefits to the common public because energy will get conserved. Furthermore, the state govt. will utilize the saved units (from use of pumps) to provide power supply in other backward areas.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
