
Yogi Adityanath has launched the online facility for Haisiyat Praman Patra at edistrict.up.nic.in in Uttar Pradesh. The state govt. is inviting UP haisiyat certificate online application form at the official edistrict portal or at the website of revenue department. The fees to fill haisiyat praman patra online form is set at Rs. 100 + user charges, Rs. 120 at jan seva kendras and Rs. 110 while applying through citizen’s portal.
UP state govt. will ensure that all the applications received for haisiyat certificate are completed with 30 days as this will ensure transparency. The evaluation of haisiyat of one person can also be evaluated on the basis of “Private valuer” which is certified by income tax (IT) department.
All the citizens who wants a documentary proof of their total property value can apply online for haisiyat praman patra. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

UP Haisiyat Praman Patra Online Application Form
Below is the complete procedure to apply online for haisiyat certificate in UP:- 

Visit the official website edistrict.up.nic.in
At the homepage, click at the “सिटीजन लॉगिन” link or directly click this link to open the UP citizen e-services login page which will appear as follows:-
UP Citizen e-Services Login Page
Here click at the “New users Register” link to open the UP haisiyat certificate online registration form:-
UP Haisiyat Certificate Online Registration Form
Fill all the details like name, date of birth, address, mobile number, e-mail id and login ID and click at the “सुरक्षित करें” tab at the bottom. Then an OTP would be sent on the registered mobile number which would be the citizen’s “password” for the first time login.
Next login to change the password and then after logging in, click at the “आवेदन भरें” link.
Then select the ‘haisiyat certificate (हैसियत प्रमाण पत्र)’ service the from “सेवा चुनें” section and click at the new application form (नवीन आवेदन करें) link. Here read all the instructions and click at the “आगे बढ़ें” tab to open the Haisiyat Praman Patra online application form.
Haisiyat Praman Patra Online Application Form
Here candidates will have to provide information about the applicant, their property and provide detailed documentary proof to complete the application process.

Furthermore, candidates can take a printout of the completed haisiyat certificate application form and must keep it for any future reference. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

All the applicants will get their Haisiyat Praman Patra within 30 days of the date of application. Yogi said that providing services to the people at ease and without any hassle & fear in a transparent manner is only poosible due to good governance.

अब घर बैठे ऑनलाइन बनवा सकेंगे गैर विवादित वरासत और हैसियत प्रमाणपत्र। pic.twitter.com/tlW6PBxU3w
— CM Office, GoUP (@CMOfficeUP) October 29, 2018

Now check the Haisiyat Praman Patra Official Notification as it appears on the UP CMO website. The state govt. is also planning to start online facility for apna khata online (khasra and khatauni) in the state. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
