
Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) is going to install 1 Crore Prepaid Electricity Meters in UP under the Saubhagya scheme. These smart meters will get installed by the uttar pradesh government to minimize the power theft and increase the revenue. UP govt. focuses on providing electricity connection to each household under Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana to ensure “Power for All”. The total outlay for this project is Rs. 1375 crore. 
This installation of one crore smart meters will bring technological upgrade in meter readings. These meters also possess a tracking device from where any consumer can track their actual consumption without manual recording. UP govt. aims to provide electricity connection to more than 4 crore rural households by December 2018 under Saubhagya Scheme.
This scheme will ensure turnaround of UPPCL and other power distribution companies (Discom) by reducing the line losses to 15%. The Smart Meters enables the power department officials to track actual consumption of consumers with online subscriptions and readings. Installation work of these pre-paid meters will begin from 1 June 2018.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Prepaid Electricity Meter Connection Uttar Pradesh
UPPCL will install these prepaid meters in 13 districts with maximum line losses. These areas include Kanpur, Varanasi, Meerut, Gorakhpur, Bareilly and Lucknow. UPPCL will also provide the facility of recharge of pre-paid meters in advance even with a small amount of Rs 50. To get prepaid electricity meter in UP, people can submit any of the following documents as id proof – Aadhar card, Pan card, Ration card, Driving licence, Voter card or Bank Passbook.
UPPCL has already given the tender of supply of 1 crore smart meters in up through Energy Efficiency Services Ltd (EESL). Now, Genus Power Infrastructures will supply 50 lakh, L&T will supply 30 lakh and Allied Engineering will supply 20 lakh prepaid meters.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Central govt. wants to minimize the line losses suffered by DISCOMS which could be done through 100% metering of all households. Govt. will make installation of prepaid meters for all small consumers and smart meters for large ones to provide “electricity to all” till March 2019 under Saubhagya Yojana.
Prepaid Electricity Meter UPPCL
Power System of UP incurs a large number of line losses. Aggregate technical and commercial (AT&C) losses of 5 discoms in UP is 27.35% till March 2018 which was 32.38% in December 2016-17 after Ujjwal Discom Assurance Yojana (UDAY) Yojana. To reduce the line losses, installation of pre-paid electricity meters in an imperative requirement. UPPCL will follow a multi-prolonged strategy to tackle line losses. 
As per the new guidelines of Union energy ministry, all Discoms whose line losses are above 15% will not be eligible for loan from power finance corporation and rural electrification. So, the state govt. wants that each and every household in the state will get an uninterrupted (24*7) power supply. The benefits of installation of Smart meters in UP includes reduction in the cost of bill in accordance with the per-capita consumption. Moreover, this scheme will implement the overall efficiency of Discoms. 
Out of the total one crore pre-paid meters, the state govt. will install 1 lakh prepaid meters in various government establishments. This smart meter installation process will improve the compliance in bill payments. Moreover, the human element of reading meters, billing, bill recovery will also get eliminated which will also reduce the corruption. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
