
Uttar Pradesh govt. is going to implement Hausala Paushan Scheme across the state. Under this scheme, all the pregnant women and under-nourished children between the age of 6 month and 6 years of age will get cooked nutritious food in various Anganwadi Centers in respective gram sabhas. Yogi govt. will implement this scheme to eradicate malnourishment of children and pregnant women. 
This scheme will benefit around 24 lakh children and lactating mothers. The primary objective is to improve Human Development Index (HDI) of UP and thus of the entire India. 
UP Hausala Poshan Scheme was the brain child of previous Samajwadi govt. led by Akhilesh Yadav and meant to completely remove malnutrition.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

UP Hausala Paushan Scheme 2018 – Details
The important features and highlights of this Nourishment scheme are as follows:-

All the pregnant women, lactating mothers and children between 6 months to 6 years of age will get freshly cooked meals at Anganwadi Centers.
Around 10 lakh pregnant women and over 14 lakh mal-nourished children will be covered under this scheme.
Highly malnourished children will also get 500 gram of desi ghee. Women will get seasonal fruits everyday along with the food.
Other ingredients given to the beneficiaries will also possess the capacity to curb malnutrition.

Govt. wants to raise the Human Development Index (HDI) of UP and of entire India. Moreover, govt. focuses on complete elimination of mal-nourishment and to ensure healthy pregnant women and children in the state.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Need to Implement Hausla Paushan Scheme
Uttar Pradesh is one of the worst performing states in the areas of under-weight and malnutrition among children b/w 0 to 6 years of age. UP stands currently at fourth rank from the bottom in rankings for children nutrition rates. Only Bihar, Andhra Pradesh and Daman & Diu has worst ranking than UP. 
As per the official data, around 35.5% of total children who were beneficiary of ICDS Supplementary Nutrition Programme were under-weight. Around 62,728 children falls in Grade III and IV (severely malnourished) categories. Currently, there are 2 crore children who are beneficiaries of supplementary nutrition programme (SNP). Furthermore, approx. 50 lakh pregnant and lactating mothers are covered under ICDS.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
