
छत्तीसगढ़ वोटर लिस्ट 2020 (PDF) अब सीईओ की आधिकारिक वेबसाइट ceochhattisgarh.nic.in पर उपलब्ध है, नयी मतदाता सूची में अपना नाम अपनी जानकारी या EPIC नंबर के आधार पर खोजें और वोटर ID कार्ड डाउनलोड करें

Table of Contents

CEO Chhattisgarh Voter List 2020 PDF Download (District-Wise)Download CG Voter ID Card Online – Search By NameFind Name in CEO CG Voters List 2020 using EPIC Number / Voter ID Card with PhotoChhattisgarh Voter ID Card Download Online using Address DetailsNIC Election Search Voter Id Card – S.No of Election CentersReferences
Chief Electoral Officer of Chhattisgarh holds the responsibility for successful conduct of elections and release of voter list of state residents. CEO publishes and updates the Chhattisgarh Voter List with Photo (electoral roll) prior to every elections. Accordingly, people can make Voter ID Card Search by Name online at official website of CEO Chhattisgarh at ceochhattisgarh.nic.in or election.cg.nic.in in the CEO CG Voters List 2020. People can even download CG Voter ID Card as per the Chhattisgarh Voter List before casting their vote. 
Election Commission had conducted voting for Lok Sabha elections in the state on 11th April 2019, 18th April 2019 & 23rd April 2019. As the date of assembly elections are over, CEO department regularly updates its database and had released the District-Wise Voter List Chhattisgarh.
Moreover, people can also Download Voter ID Card by manually searching the complete list (PDF) at NIC (National Informatics Centre) election search website at election.cg.nic.in. People can use the online process to obtain their S.No. (Matdata Suchi Parchi) and voter card.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

CEO Chhattisgarh Voter List 2020 PDF Download (District-Wise)
Checking voter list is a very simple and hassle free process as the entire voter list of Chhattisgarh is available online. Below is the complete procedure to get CG Voter ID Card and make Search by Name in the Draft Electoral Roll / District Wise Voters List 2020.

Visit the official website of CEO Chhattisgarh at ceochhattisgarh.nic.in.
On the homepage, click on the “मतदाताओं के लिए” section in the main menu and then click the “जिला वार मतदाता सूची (पीडीएफ)” to view the District Wise Voter List 2020 Chhattisgarh.
Direct Link – To directly download the PDF File, candidates can click the link – Electoral Roll / CG Voters List 2020 (PDF)
Afterwards, the district-wise voter list will get opened as shown in the figure below:-
CG Voter List 2020
Accordingly, people can click their District Name (Zila), Assembly Constituency (Vidhan Sabha) and then click “मतदान केंद्र की सूची देखे” tab.
Next candidates have to enter “Captcha” or words that appear in the image. In front of the polling station name, the option to Download Voter ID List 2020 with photograph in pdf format is available as shown in the figure:-
District Wise Chhattisgarh Voter List 2020 Download
Finally candidates can perform Manual Voter ID Card CG Search By Name in the complete Chhattisgarh Voter List with Photo 2020.

Chief Election Commissioner of Chhattisgarh has simplified Voter List / Voter ID card search by name process. This list is the latest one containing all the names of existing voters. Even candidates can fill Form 6 for new name addition and deletion through the link – CEO Chhattisgarh Form 6


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Download CG Voter ID Card Online – Search By Name
The complete procedure to make Voter ID Card Search By Name and Voter ID Card Download has been specified below:-

For CG Voter ID Download, all the candidates can find their name online at the official website of Chief Electoral officer (CEO) of Chhattisgarh.
On the homepage, click on the “मतदाताओं के लिए” section in the main menu and then click the “मतदाता सूचि मे अपना नाम खोजे” link
A New Window for Voter ID Card Search By Name Online will appear as follows:-
Voter ID Card Search By Name
Here candidates can find their name online using the EPIC Number, Name, Assembly Constituency, Matdan Kendra Kramank (S.No.) and Address Details.

Finally after finding their name online, candidates can download the CG Voter ID Card and take a printout to caste their important vote.
Find Name in CEO CG Voters List 2020 using EPIC Number / Voter ID Card with Photo
Candidates can find their name in the CG Voter List 2019-2020 through online mode using Electoral Photo ID Card (EPIC) Number from the link given below:-

Search Name with EPIC Number in CG Voters List
The Voter ID Card CG Search by Name using EPIC Number section will appear as follows:-
Voter ID Card CG Search Name Epic Number
Here enter your epic number, enter the captcha and then click on “Search Name in Electoral Roll”.

Then all the details of the candidates will get displayed on the screen. Finally, Download Voter ID Card Online for Chhattisgarh Elections 2019-2020. This data is updated every week on a regular basis. 
Chhattisgarh Voter ID Card Download Online using Address Details
Candidates can directly search their name in the electoral roll using their name and other details through the link given below:-
Find Name in the Chhattisgarh Electoral Roll 2020 using Address Details 
Here candidates can enter their District, Area, Name and other details and then click the “Search Name in Electoral Roll” button to fetch complete details. Take a printout for the CG Voter ID Download. This method searches for the name of the candidate in the booths / matdaan kendras coming under the residence area of voter.
NIC Election Search Voter Id Card – S.No of Election Centers
All the candidates can also find their name in the Voter List Chhattisgarh on the basis of S.No. of election centers or Matdan Kendra using their name or EPIC Number. This method search the name of the voter in the appropriate dept. of assembly constituency. To download the CG Voter ID Card using this method, click the link – Find Name & Voter ID Card Download with S.No / Matdan Kendra Number 
Voter ID Card CG Search By Name – Assembly Wise – All those candidates who want to find their name and wants that the online system should search their name in all the departments of assembly constituencies. Then all the candidates can perform Voter ID Card CG Search by Name through the link – http://election.cg.nic.in/elesrch/electorsearch.aspx
From all the above mentioned methods of CG Voter ID Download, candidates can easily find their name in the Chhattisgarh Voter List With Photo. Furthermore, all those people whose name does not appears in the Chhattisgarh Voter List does not have to worry. They can make online enrollment for CG Voter List 2020 and can then download their Voter ID Card.
References
— Assembly Wise Matdan Kendra
— Claims and Objections of Electoral Roll
— Electors Search App





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: ceochhattisgarh.nic.in
SAVE AS PDF
