


Table of Contents

AP Youth For Andhra Online RegistrationAP Youth Ambassador Program 2019 Eligibility & Important PointsAP Youth For Andhra Ambassador Program Benefits
Andhra Pradesh govt. invites online registration forms for “Youth For Andhra” program at youth4ap.ncbn.in. AP Youth Ambassador Program aims at understanding and validating the grass root implementation of policies and development work taking place. All the youths of Andhra between 18 to 35 years of age can apply online and make AP Youth For Andhra Online Registration for position of Youth Ambassador. The youths of the state would now serve as an ambassador of change. 
AP Youth For Andhra Program 2019 would be an immense learning experience as special sessions shall be taken by prominent bureaucrats and administrators. All the Ambassadors will get deeper understanding of the functioning and policies of Andhra Pradesh government.
The experience certificate from the Andhra Pradesh govt. would also give the youths an edge in applying for jobs.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Youth For Andhra Online Registration
Below is the complete procedure to apply online for Youth For Andhra program:-

Firstly visit the official website at youth4ap.ncbn.in
At the homepage, click at the “Apply Now” link present in the header or directly click this link
The Youth For Andhra Registration Form will appear as follows:-
Youth For Andhra Registration Form
Here candidates can enter all the necessary details and click at the “Submit” button to complete the registration process.

After completion of the registration process of Youth For Andhra Program, candidates can become Youth Ambassador.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Youth Ambassador Program 2019 Eligibility & Important Points
The candidates must be a resident of Andhra Pradesh and must lie in the age group of 18 to 35 years. Moreover, candidates can be passionate about contributing to the community. The important features and highlights of this AP Youth Ambassador Program are as follows:-

The complete duration of Youth For Andhra program will be 5 to 7 weeks.
Each week, the participants will be provided with a module containing info. about various developmental and welfare initiatives by the government.
By utilizing these modules, participants are expected to create content either written or video or graphical.
The content which is generated by the participants would be judged on the basis of quality and quantity.
A district-wise leader board would be kept to keep track of top performing participants.

AP Youth For Andhra Ambassador Program Benefits
All the top 100 performing participants will get a chance to interact with the honourable CM Nara Chandrababu Naidu. The state govt. will provide a certificate of appreciation from the govt. of AP which would be a great addition for resume of youth. 

‘Youth for Andhra’, a powerful Youth Ambassador Program by AP govt will empower you to be the agent of change. In a time where suppressing the voice of people has become a norm, we are listening. Join us and be a part of progress. #YouthForAndhra pic.twitter.com/QlRvAEXbuM
— N Chandrababu Naidu (@ncbn) February 14, 2019

AP govt. will provide an excellent opportunity to observe the functioning of govt. closely. Youths will get interaction sessions with prominent bureaucrats and administrators like district collectors and HoDs. This Youth Ambassador Program will have a pride of having positive impact on the community as the content provided by them would be used to shape the future policies and execution plans. For more details, visit the official website at https://youth4ap.ncbn.in/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
