
आंध्र प्रदेश वोटर लिस्ट 2020 (PDF) अब सीईओ की आधिकारिक वेबसाइट ceoandhra.nic.in पर उपलब्ध है, नयी मतदाता सूची में अपना नाम अपनी जानकारी या EPIC नंबर के आधार पर खोजें और वोटर ID कार्ड डाउनलोड करें

Table of Contents

How to Check Voter List in AP 2020CEO Andhra Pradesh Voter List 2020 (PDF Electoral Rolls) DownloadAP Voter List Name Search 2020 & Download Voter ID CardAP CEO Voters List 2020 E-Registration
Election Commission of India had released the CEO Andhra Pradesh Voter List 2019 at ceoandhra.nic.in. In this post, we will tell you the procedure on how to check voter list in AP 2020. Voting for Lok Sabha Elections in Andhra Pradesh was done on 25 seats on 11th April 2019. People can now download PDF Electoral Rolls and can perform AP Voter List Name Search 2020 manually in the downloaded voters list with photo. The name of voter must appear in the AP Voters List 2019-2020 in order to caste their important vote in the upcoming Lok Sabha & state elections. 
ECI has recently announced the Lok Sabha election dates 2019 and model code of conduct is applicable. As elections are inching closer, citizens can Download AP Voter ID Card and check their name in the AP CEO Voter List 2020 to avoid any last time rush at the polling stations. 
Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Andhra Pradesh is responsible for the successful conduct of elections across the state. So, CEO publishes and update AP voter list (electoral roll) prior to elections. Now people can find their name in the CEO Voters List 2020 and can Download Andhra Pradesh Voter ID Card before casting their vote.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

How to Check Voter List in AP 2020
CEO department is regularly updating its voters database. Now people can check their name in the district-wise voter list along with their photo. People can download the entire PDF file of Electoral Roll (CEO Voter List) and perform manual searching in the Voter List 2020. Now citizens can adopt a hassle free process and know the process of how to check name in voter list 2020.
CEO Andhra Pradesh Voter List 2020 (PDF Electoral Rolls) Download
Below is the complete procedure for process of checking voter list in Andhra Pradesh. People can download Andhra Pradesh PDF Electoral Roll to check name in the voter list manually:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Firstly visit the official website of Chief Electoral Officer of Andhra Pradesh at ceoandhra.nic.in
At the homepage, scroll over the “PDF Electoral Rolls” option and click at the “Assembly Constituency” or directly click at AP Electoral Rolls (District Wise)
Afterwards, the page to check voter list in Andhra Pradesh 2020 is as follows:-
Check Voter List AP 2020
Here candidates can enter the district, select assembly constituency and then click at the “Get Polling Stations“. Then the Andhra Pradesh polling station name and location along with the links to download mother rolls and supplementary voters list will appear as shown below:-
CEO Andhra Pradesh Voter List Polling Station Wise
Now click at the “Mother Roll” option in the desired language & then perform verification to open the CEO Voters List 2020 as shown below:-
AP Voter ID Card Download CEO Voters List 2020
All the citizens can perform AP voter list name search manually in the downloaded AP CEO Voter list 2020.

AP Voter List Name Search 2020 & Download Voter ID Card
Below is the complete procedure to make AP Voter List Name Search 2020 through online mode and download AP Voter ID Card:-

Visit the same official website at ceoandhra.nic.in
At the homepage, scroll over “Search Your Name” link in the header and then click at the “Assembly Constituency” link.
This will redirect the citizens to the https://electoralsearch.in/ link and will open the page as shown below:-
AP Voter List Name Search 2020
Here candidates can enter the details and find their name online which will assist them in downloading their AP Voter ID Card Online.

AP CEO Voters List 2020 E-Registration
The E-Registration process has already been started to include your name in the AP CEO Voters List. People can now directly click the link given below to make e-registration for AP CEO Voters List 2020:-
AP Voters List 2020 Online Registration
Here candidates can fill the Form 6 at the National Voters Service Portal to include their name in the Voters List to caste their important vote for the state and Lok Sabha elections.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: www.nvsp.in, ceoandhra.nic.in
SAVE AS PDF
