
Andhra Pradesh govt. is going to start Skill Development Training program for jobless youth who have been enrolled in the AP Nirudyoga Bruthi Scheme (Unemployment Allowance Scheme). To avail this training, interested candidates must make Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme online registration at yuvanestham.ap.gov.in. This Youth Special Training Program will provide employment opportunities to jobless persons in the state. 
Youth Special Training Programme will start from 10 December 2018 at around 555 centers across the state. Till date, around 4 lakh unemployed youth have been enrolled in Mukhyamantri Yuva Nestam Scheme. The last date to apply online for AP Nirudyoga Bruthi Scheme is 25 December 2018.
These enrolled youths are entitled to receive monthly pension benefits of Rs. 2,000 per month and can take up this skill development training programme.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Skill Development Training Programme – AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme
AP govt. has launched Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme on 14 September 2018 to provide monthly pension of Rs. 2,000 to unemployed youth in the state. Now the state govt. has decided that it will start Skill Development Training Programme (Youth Special Training Program) to provide employment to such jobless candidates. 
This skill development training program is applicable for all the eligible youth between 22 to 35 years of age. To create employment opportunities under AP Nirudyoga Bruthi Scheme, govt. will take up a special training programme from 10 December 2018. This Skill Development training programme will be given in 555 centers across the state. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The state govt. is going to spend Rs 24 crore. To avail this training, candidates must fill the Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme online application form through the official website.
All the candidates enrolled in this AP Mukhyamantri Yuva Nestam Scheme can get this special skill development training programme. This training would be provided on the basis of the choice selected by the unemployed person.
References
— AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme Online Registration – User Manual
— Download Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Mobile App
— For more details, visit the yuvanestham.ap.gov.inofficial website. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
