


Table of Contents

Telangana Kanti Velugu Program – Free Eye Check-Up SchemeEye Camps under Kanti Velugu ProgrammeReferences
Telangana govt. has launched Kanti Velugu Program to achieve “Avoidable Blindness Free” status. In this Free Complete Eye Check Up Scheme, govt. will perform Universal Eye Screening of citizens to treat refractive errors, cataract and other ailments. Moreover in this Light for Eyes Programme, concerned authorities will create a database of eye health profile of citizens linked to Aadhaar Number. All services will be given absolutely free of cost to benefit 3.70 crore residents.
Kanti Velugu Program 2018 will also include distribution of spectacles and surgeries to treat various eye disorders. Chief Minister KCR has launched this Universal Eye Screening Program in Malkapur Villages in Medak district on 72nd Independence Day i.e 15 August 2018.
GHMC, Self Help Groups and other revenue officials will distribute eye screening slips just like distribution of voter slips. Eye Camps will be organized in various areas of the state for Universal Eye Care. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Telangana Kanti Velugu Program – Free Eye Check-Up Scheme
This Free Eye Check up Scheme is a massive first of its kind initiative in the country to benefit 3.70 crore citizens. The main objectives of this Kanti Velugu Programme are as follows:-

To conduct universal eye screening and vision tests for all citizens of the state.
In case of refraction errors, spectacles will be provided free of cost.
Surgeries will be organized in case of Cataract, Glaucoma, Retinopathy, Corneal Disorders.
For Vitamin A deficiency and Eye infections, medicines will be provided free of cost.
To educate people on prevention of serious eye disabling diseases.
Kanti Velugu Programme in Telangana

All the services to be provided are absolutely free of cost. This scheme will provide benefits to all residents irrespective of their Socio-Economic status. Even a 30 day old baby can be treated for Retinoblastoma. This is an essential step as around 30% to 40% citizens in the state are suffering from eye problems.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Eye Camps under Kanti Velugu Programme
Various Eye Camps will be organized in different parts of the state to identify and treat eye disorders. Important features and facilities being provided to people at these Eye Camps are as follows:-
— Medical teams will conduct Eye Camps. Each Medical team will comprise of 1 Medical Officer, 2-3 MPHS (Male) & (Female), 1-2 Optometrists, Pharmacist, 2-3 ASHA Workers and 1 Data Entry Operator.
— Each team will get a full time vehicle and will be equipped with essential devices, materials and drugs to provide services.
— In Rural areas, Camps will be organized PHC-Wise in all Gram Panchayats in Rural areas. In GHMC areas and other Urban areas, camps will be held Ward Wise.
— Data of each person walking in for treatment will be captured electronically on a software. This will ensure tracking of follow up services for surgery and distribution of glasses accurately.
Expected Outreach of Kanti Velugu Programme


Overall Population covered
3.5 Crores


Total Glasses / Spectacles to be provided
41,05,808


People to be given Primary Care
50 Lakhs


People to be given Secondary Care
3,31,178


Number of people to be given Tertiary Care
14,283


It is expected that the total budget of this scheme will be around 106.84 crore. Out of this, the state govt. will provide Rs. 84 crore while the remaining amount of Rs. 24 crore will be tapped under National Health Mission.
References
— For more details, see the official notification – Kanti Velugu Program Notification
— Visit the official website – http://chfw.telangana.gov.in/homeTSACS.do





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
