


Table of Contents

Shaadi Mubarak Scheme / Kalyana Laxmi Scheme Application Form DownloadShaadi Mubarak Scheme In Telangana State – Kalyana Laxmi EligibilityDocuments Required For Shaadi Mubarak SchemeKalyana Laxmi Scheme Status
Telangana govt. has increased the marriage assistance to Rs. 1 lakh under Shaadi Mubarak Scheme In Telangana State. Kalyana Lakshmi Pathakam / Kalyana Laxmi Scheme is a welfare scheme for wedding of SC, ST, Minorities (BC-A / BC-B / BC-D) and economically backward classes (EBC – listed / other) girls. Interested girls can see Kalyana Lakshmi Scheme Details, do Kalyana Laxmi Scheme Application Form Download or fill it through telanganaepass.cgg.gov.in
KCR has increased the previous support amount of Rs. 51,000 to Rs. 1,00,000 to bear marriage expenses of girls who have attained the age of 18 years. To avail Kalyana Lakshmi Scheme Amount, girls must follow the eligibility criteria. Kalyana Laxmi Eligibility includes that the annual income of the parents must not exceed Rs. 2,00,000 per annum. 
All the brides who wishes to avail the benefits can fill the Telangana Shadi Mubarak Application through the official website of telangana epass. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Shaadi Mubarak Scheme / Kalyana Laxmi Scheme Application Form Download
Below is the complete procedure to apply online for shaadi mubarak scheme in telangana state:-

Firstly visit the official website telanganaepass.cgg.gov.in
On the homepage, click the “Kalyana Lakshmi” Photo or directly click this link
Afterwards, click the “Register – Click Here” link under ‘Kalyana Lakshmi Pathakam Services’ section.
Then Telangana Shadi Mubarak Application Form will appear as shown below:-
Telangana Shadi Mubarak Application Form
Fill all the details, upload documents and click the “Submit” button.
Finally take a printout of the completed application form to avail the Kalyana Lakshmi Scheme Amount.

Direct Link – Candidates can directly click Telangana State Shadi Mubarak Registration Form to make registration on Telangana epass website.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Shaadi Mubarak Scheme In Telangana State – Kalyana Laxmi Eligibility
To fill the application form and to avail the Kalyana Lakshmi Pathakam Amount, firstly see the kalyana laxmi eligibility. See complete Kalyana Lakshmi Scheme Details:-

The girl candidate must be a permanent resident of Telangana State.
Even the girls must belong to SC / ST / Minorities / Backward classes to avail kalyana lakshmi scheme amount of Rs. 1 lakh.
Girl must have attained the age of 18 years.
The annual income of the parents of bride from all sources must not exceed Rs. 2 lakh to apply for Shaadi Mubarak Scheme 2018.

Documents Required For Shaadi Mubarak Scheme
All the candidates must upload the following shaadi mubarak scheme documents to avail kalyana lakshmi scheme amount and also see list of documents in Kalyana Lakshmi Scheme Details:-


Shaadi Mubarak Scheme Documents


1st Marriage Confirmation Certificate
VPO / Panchayat Secretary Approval Certificate


Recent Photograph of Bride
Age Proof


Bride Aadhaar Card (Scanned Copy)
Bridegroom Aadhaar Card (Scanned Copy)


Bride’s Mother’s Bank Passbook
Bank passbook of bride


In addition to the above Kalyana Laxmi Scheme documents, candidates must also be asked to produce Wedding Card, Caste Certificate, Income Certificate and SSC documents.
Kalyana Laxmi Scheme Status
Candidates can print their application form and can also check the Shaadi Mubarak Scheme Status through the link given below:-
Shaadi Mubarak Scheme Application Status
Furthermore, candidates can see the complete Kalyana Lakshmi Scheme Details to fill the application form and upload documents.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
