
Telangana State Government has issued new guidelines of Single Women Pension Scheme under which every eligible single women would get Rs. 1000 per month as the pension. The scheme would be launched on Telangana State Formation Day on 2nd June. The beneficiary single women should not be enrolled in any other social security pension scheme or should not be a pensioner in any of the public or private pension scheme.
Eligibility for Single Women Pension Scheme
As per the new guidelines, the single women beneficiary should not be earning more than Rs. 1.5 Lakh annually in rural areas and Rs. 2.0 Lakh in urban areas. The “single women” is referred to married women of at least 18 years of age who is separated from her husband. The separation period should be at least one year. If the women does not have proof of separation period then the details could be ascertained by a local tehsildar.
Unmarried women whose age is above 30 years in rural areas and 35 years in urban areas are also eligible to avail the benefits of single women pension scheme. Other women who are eligible for the single women pension scheme are



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

– Whose husband’s are stuck in gulf countries and now in jails
– Those whose families have abandoned them
– Widows of farmers, handloom workers, bread earners who committed suicide or died in accidents
There are about 2.4 Lakh single women in the state who would be benefited by the scheme as per the survey conducted by the PR & RD Department. The scheme would cost the state government approximately Rs. 34 Crore per month.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

In case the single women remarries and or gets the permanent employment or economic stability, the scheme benefits would be discontinued.
Application Forms for Single Women Pension Scheme
Single women pension scheme application forms would be available only after the scheme is launched. The dully filled application forms would be received from all the eligible candidates. The application forms would then be entrusted by the panchayat secretary in rural areas, bill collector in urban local bodies, and village revenue officer in GHMC areas.
The tehsildar would conduct gram sabhas in GHMC areas for identification of eligible women for the pension scheme. In slums also, Tehsildar or deputy collector would conduct Ward Sabhas while the municipal commissioners would conduct ward sabhas in other urban local areas.
Details procedure of application for Single Women Pension Scheme in Telangana would be available only after the scheme is launched.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
