


Table of Contents

Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Scheme BenefitsKaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project RecordsStage Wise Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Process
Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Scheme is a Telangana government’s gift to the entire India. This is the world’s largest multi-stage multi-purpose lift irrigation scheme coming from the brainchild of CM K Chandrasekhar Rao. The new Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation project is expected to turn the parched and barren outback of Telangana into a verdant land of milk and honey. For the upcoming years, Kaleshwaram will remain a testimony of Telangana’s gift to the nation which is struggling to grow up the GDP ladder.
After solving all the inter state disputes, obtaining all clearances and permissions, overcoming all obstacles strategically within a short duration of 3 years, the Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project is constructed by the Telangana government. Now there would be no more wastelands and no more thirsty throats.
On 21 June 2019, CM KCR will inaugurate the engineering marvel Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project at Medigadda which is moment of pride and honor for India.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Scheme Benefits
The major benefits by the Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Scheme are as follows:-

Water is supplied for 2 crops in a year to 45 lakh acres.
40 TMC of water through Mission Bhagiratha to supply safe drinking water daily to each household.
Drinking water to be supplied to 1 crore population in Greater Hyderabad city daily.
Supply of 16 TMC of water to thousands of industries in the state for industrial usage.
Moreover, there is also an opportunity for Hydel power generation.

CM KCR will also switch on the first motor at Kannepally. This is not only the beginning of a new chapter in Telangana but also the beginning of a new book altogether indeed. The 1st book was the “over the decade” movement for Telangana state. The 2nd book in the Telangana’s history is the development through irrigation which will commence through this Kharif season with the inauguration of Kaleshwaram.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project Records

Utilization of 139 MW maximum capacity pumps which were never used anywhere in the world.
World’s longest tunnel route of 203 kilometers.
Kaleshwaram is the one and only project which can lift 2 TMC of water everyday. Efforts are on to lift 3 TMC of water from FY 2020.
This is the only project in the world which caters to the water needs of 45 lakh acres of agricultural land, hundreds of industries and drinking water to thousands of villages.
It is for the 1st time that water is lifted from Godavari river in phases from 92 meters height for supply of water to farmland taking it upto 618 meters height.

One of the main reason for construction of Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project is to get state’s legitimate share in river waters. Telangana is geographically located 100 metres above the sea level and could not construct a dam across the Godavari to tap water. In case a huge dam was constructed, almost half of the Telangana and neighbouring Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh would be submerged. So, the CM KCR led Telangana govt. has conceptualised the Kaleshwaram lift irrigation scheme. 
Stage Wise Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Process
Here is the complete stage wise lift irrigation process from 92 metres to 618 metres:-


Area
Height (in metres)
Height of Lift (in meters)
Water Usage in TMC


Medigadda
92

16.17


Yellampally
148
56
75


Mid-Mannair
318
70
25.873


Sriram Sagar
332.54
14.54
200


Malakpet
432.50
127.50
8.6


Anantagiri
397
95
3


Ranganayaka Sagar
490
117
11


Mallanna Sagar
557
103
108


Kondapochamma Sagar
618
120
29


CM KCR is responsible for conceiving, designing and execution of Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Scheme. This is now considered as the “World’s largest multi-stage lift irrigation scheme”.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: http://www.newindianexpress.com/states/telangana/2019/jun/21/kaleshwaram-lift-irrigation-scheme-telangana-governments-gift-to-the-nation-1993136.html
SAVE AS PDF
