
Telangana govt. has launched Balika Arogya Raksha Kits Scheme 2018 for girls studying in various schools across the state. Under this scheme, all the school girls will get a free Health and Hygiene Kit with 13 basic items. Deputy CM Kadiyam Srihari said that the state govt. is spending Rs. 20,000 crore p.a on education. Minister launches Balika Aarogya Raksha Health & Hygiene Kit Scheme and distributed kits to students of Telangana State Residential School for Girls & Junior colleges.
Under Balika Arogya Raksha Kits Scheme in Telangana, the state govt. will spend Rs. 100 crore per year for the distribution of Health & Hygiene kits. The state govt. will spend Rs. 1,600 on each student studying in Class 7th to Intermediate (12th). This Girl Health Protection Kit Scheme will benefit around 6 lakh girl students of the state-run educational institutions across Telangana.
This is a first-of-its-kind initiative in the country. This initiative was launched at an event held at Hasanparthi Residential College on 24 August 2018.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Balika Arogya Raksha Kits Scheme in Telangana – List of Items
These Health protection kits were previously given to only those who are studying in residential schools. This time the state govt. has decided to provide Balika Arogya Raksha Kits to students of all schools. All the school girls studying in Class 7th to Class 12th will be covered under this scheme. Each Kit will contain 13 items which are listed below:- 


List of Items


Patanjali bathing soap
Detergent soap


Dabur Coconut Hair Oil
Comb


Shampoo
Toothbrush


Toothpaste
Tongue Cleaner


Eytex Facial Powder
Sticker Bindis


Nylon Ribbons
Hair Bands


Sanitary Napkins



It is getting an excellent response from the girls students in the state. This scheme will promote girls towards a clean and healthy atmosphere. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Telangana Health & Hygiene Kits Scheme – Balika Aarogya Raksha Scheme
In previous years, Telangana state under CM KCR has become a beacon of development and stands apart in education, health and various other sectors. The state govt. is consistently working hard to provide required infrastructure and to raise the overall standard of education.
Health Hygiene Kits Scheme Telangana
Due to the efforts of Telangana govt., enrollment ratio in various state run schools has been increased. The state govt. is providing quality education to 5 lakh students through gurukul schools and is also providing rice and non-vegetarian food to students. Deputy CM has also inaugurated additional classrooms and hostel rooms on this occasion.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
