
Telangana Government is going to launch an Input Assistance Scheme for the Ryots / Farmers Investment Support Scheme (FISS). Subsequently, all the farmers will get financial assistance of Rs. 4,000 per acre each for Yasangi and Kharif Crops under this Rythu Bandhu Scheme. Accordingly this scheme will enable the peasants or the land cultivators to purchase farm inputs independent of the moneylenders. This Farmers Investment Support Scheme (FISS) is a continuous scheme and the state govt. will spend Rs. 12000 crore for this scheme. 
The state govt. will start Rythu Bandhu Scheme from the upcoming Kharif Season. Moreover, this scheme will also include the coverage of horticultural crops. Telangana govt. is going to implement this scheme on a pilot basis initially in 2 or 3 villages which will ensure easy transfer of input assistance. 
Latest Update – Rythu Bandhu Scheme 2018 has been launched in the Karimnagar District – See details



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Telangana govt. will launch Rythu Bandhu Scheme / Farmers Investment Support Scheme (FISS) to benefit around 71 lakh farmers of the state. Under this Agricultural Investment Support Scheme, govt. will distribute Rs. 6000 crore as an investment support for ryots for their Kharif crops from 1 May 2018 to 10 May 2018. Rest Rs. 6000 crore will be given to the ryots for rabi crops in the month of November.
Rythu Bandhu / Farmers Investment Support Scheme Roll Out – Rythu Bandhu scheme will get rolled out in the following manner:-
Input Assistance Scheme Ryots Farmers Investment Support Scheme Telangana


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Input Assistance Scheme for Ryots / Rythu Bandhu / Farmers Investment Support Scheme (FISS)
The important features and highlights of this scheme are as follows:-

This scheme is going to benefit Ryots / Peasant Cultivators of Telangana.
Subsequently, the input assistance to the farmers is fixed at Rs. 4000 per acre for Yasangi and Kharif Crops..
Accordingly, the farmers will get money for the purchase of farm inputs to increase their cultivation.
This scheme will raise the growth rate of the farm sector of the state.
For its successful implementation, govt. will implement this scheme on a pilot basis in some villages.
Telangana govt. is going to shortlist the villages in the next week. Initially, the govt. will select these villages from Medak, Mahabubnagar, Nalgonda and Nizamabad districts.
Furthermore, the state govt. will spend around Rs. 8000 to Rs. 12000 crore for the successful implementation of Farmers Investment Support Scheme.

Telangana govt. is implementing this scheme on a pilot basis to address the issues of bank accounts of farmers. Accordingly, the state govt. is going to prepare a flawless system to provide the necessary financial assistance to the farmers. Under this scheme, the mode of payments is not yet finalized. However, the state govt. is planing to introduce online transfer mechanism which will make use of ATM Cards, Rupay Cards, Demand Draft or cheques in the name of farmers. 
Implementation of Input Assistance Scheme / Rythu Bandhu
Telangana govt. has made its preparations to successfully implement this Farmers Investment Support Scheme (FISS). However, the main concern is to ensure transparency in the transfer of assistance amount to the farmers.
This scheme is a continuous scheme which will involve huge money transfer. Accordingly, govt. would require a proper transfer mechanism in order to make this scheme successful. This pilot run will get completed in around 1 month time. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
