
Telangana state govt. has launched the Christmas Gift Scheme 2017 for the poor people. Under this scheme, govt. is going to distribute gifts to around 2 lakh Christians from the poor and economically backward sections of the society. Accordingly, the state govt. will provide clothes and also host Christmas dinners for the people from impoverished background. The state govt. starts this scheme in the year 2015 and now the state govt. is carrying forward this initiative.
The state govt. will provide sarees or cloth pieces to the beneficiaries. The beneficiary can stitch the given cloth pieces into a pair of shirt and pant or salwar kameez. Telangana govt. will distribute gift hampers to the poor people on 14 December 2017 and also organize dinner on 18 December 2017. The state govt. will spend Rs 15 crore for successful implementation of this scheme.
Details of Christmas Gift Scheme 2017
The important features and highlights of this scheme are as follows:-



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


This scheme is launched to provide Christmas Gifts which includes clothes and dinner to the weaker sections of the Telangana state.
Under this scheme, the state will ensure that the distributed clothes are of high quality.
As per the collected data, there are around 1 lakh Christians in Hyderabad and Secunderabad city and 1 lakh in rest of the state. So this scheme will benefit around 2 lakh Christians belonging to the weaker sections.
Subsequently, MLAs and Corporates along with the Christian Organizations are given the responsibility to identify beneficiaries.
After the identification of beneficiaries, govt. will transfer the specified amount directly to the account of the church. These churches will hand over the gift hampers and organize the dinner facility.
Accordingly, the state govt. has identified 190 churches to avail the benefits of this scheme.
The state govt. firstly launches this scheme in December 2015 and is now going to continue this scheme.
Furthermore, CM will also host a grand dinner party for some best Christian families in Hyderabad on the Christmas eve.

In addition to this, Deputy CM also laid the foundation of Christian Bhavan at Medchal situated at the city suburbs on 4 December 2017.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

 




(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
