
तेलंगाना वोटर लिस्ट 2020 (PDF) अब सीईओ की आधिकारिक वेबसाइट ceotelangana.nic.in पर उपलब्ध है, नयी मतदाता सूची में अपना नाम अपनी जानकारी या EPIC नंबर के आधार पर खोजें और वोटर ID कार्ड डाउनलोड करें

Table of Contents

CEO Telangana Voter List 2020 (PDF Electoral Roll) DownloadTelangana Voter ID Card Download Online – Find by Name / EPIC No. / House No.Check Telangana Voter ID Application Status
Election Commission of India had announced the Lok Sabha election dates and conducted voting on 11th April 2019 (Phase 1) in the Telangana state. Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Telangana is responsible for successful conduct of elections across the state. Accordingly, CEO publishes and updates the voter list (electoral roll with photo) @ ceotelangana.nic.in prior to elections. Now people can find their name in the CEO voters list 2020, perform voter list sms verification and can download voter ID card before casting their vote.
As the Lok Sabha elections are inching closer, CEO dept. is regularly updating its voters database and final voter list is available. Now people can check their name in the district-wise voter list along with their photo. Even those citizens who have already applied for the voter card can now check their application status online.
Moreover, people can download the entire PDF file of the Electoral Roll (Voter List) and perform manual searching in the Voter List 2020 in Telangana. In addition to this, people can adopt a hassle free process and check their names online.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

CEO Telangana Voter List 2020 (PDF Electoral Roll) Download
People can now download the complete assembly constituency wise voters list (PDF) to check whether their name appears in the voters list with photo at the CEO Telangana website. The complete procedure to download the final electoral roll / district wise voters list 2020 is given below:-

Firstly, visit the official website ceotelangana.nic.in
At the homepage, scroll at the “PDF Electoral Rolls” section and click at the “Assembly Constituency” link
Download Voter List 2020 Telangana
Direct link – Telangana Voter List with Photo Download
Here candidates can select the “District” and “Assembly constituency” and then click at the “Get polling Stations” button to get the details of polling stations as shown below:-
Voter List 2020 Polling Station wise Telangana
Here candidates can click at the “View” link and enter “captcha” to open the district wise voters list as shown below:-
Telangana CEO Voters List PDF Download
Accordingly, people can check their electors name, father’s name, house number, age, sex and download their voter slips to cast their vote.

Finally candidates can perform manual search to find there name in the complete Telangana voter list with photo. All the citizens can click at the link – Voter List SMS Verification to verify name in the electoral roll through SMS.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Telangana Voter ID Card Download Online – Find by Name / EPIC No. / House No.
Below is the complete procedure to find your name online in Telangana voters list (assembly constituency wise) and download the Voter ID Card:-

Candidates can find their name online in the CEO voter list of Telangana by visiting the same official website ceotelangana.nic.in
At the homepage, scroll over the “Search Your Name” tab in the header and click at the “Assembly Constituency” link as shown below:-
Telangana Voter ID Search by Name
Then people can check their name in the Telangana voter list 2020 online using either house number or name or photo identity card number (EPIC number) as shown in the figure below:-
Find Name Voter List Telangana Name EPIC Number Photo
Here candidates can find their name online by entering their district name, assembly constituency name and any one search criteria. Finding name criteria includes either search by name or search by house number or search by EPIC number. After entering details, click at the “Search” button to find their name online in voters list and download voter ID card as shown below:-
Telangana Find Name Voter ID Card Download
Finally, after finding their name online, candidates can download the Voter ID Card and take a printout of the voter slip as shown below:-
Telangana Voter ID Card Download Online

This voter slip will serve you the purpose of right to vote as with this voters slip will enable you to cast your important vote. All those people whose name does not appears in the electoral roll does not have to worry. They can make online enrollment for the Telangana voter list and can then download their voter ID card.
Check Telangana Voter ID Application Status
To ensure greater participation of citizens in this biggest festival of democracy i.e assembly elections, EC invites online registrations for voter cards. In case, the name of the candidate is not present in the electoral roll (voters list) of Telangana, then candidates needs to make voter ID card registration and fill Form No. 6 to get their name included in the voters list. If the candidates have already submitted the completed application form to booth level officers (BLO) or ERO, then applicants can check their status through the link below:-
Telangana Voter ID Application Status
After clicking at the link to check application status of voter ID, a new window will open as shown below:-
Telangana Voter ID Status Check
Here candidates needs to enter their “Application ID” along with the form number which a candidate has submitted or “House Number” and click at the “Search” button to perform voter ID status check. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: ceotelangana.nic.in
SAVE AS PDF
