


Table of Contents

Buffalo Distribution Scheme in Telangana – Subsidy & CostEligibility & Application FormsOther Decisions
Telangana Govt. has approved the launch of a new Buffalo Distribution Scheme for Dairy Farmers who produces and sell milk. Under this scheme, the state govt. will provide 50% subsidy on the purchase of new buffaloes. The total number of Cattles to be distributed is 2 lakh with a total outlay of Rs. 800 crore.
Now farmers can purchase one buffalo by paying a minimal price of Rs. 40,000. The state govt. will bear the rest amount. This major initiative is after the successful implementation of Rs. 5000 crore Sheep Distribution Scheme. 
This scheme will boost the farmer’s income who are into the business of milk production. Govt. will soon finalize the implementation guidelines.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Buffalo Distribution Scheme in Telangana – Subsidy & Cost
Here we are giving you the details of the government subsidy and total cost for the purchase of new buffaloes under this scheme:-

Subsidy & Number of Buffaloes – CM K Chandrashekhar Rao has now given approval to the new Rs. 800 crore plan of distributing 2 lakh buffaloes to farmers at 50% subsidy.
Effective Cost of Cattle After Subsidy – The cost of purchasing a new buffalo is around Rs. 80,000. Out of this total amount, govt. will pay Rs. 40,000 for each buffalo (50% subsidy). So, Farmers will only have to pay Rs. 40,000 for the purchase of new buffaloes.

This Cattle Distribution scheme will benefit around 2 lakh families of the farmers who produces and sells milk for their income. This is a first of its kind initiative in the country.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Eligibility & Application Forms
The state govt. will invite online applications for this new Buffalo Distribution Scheme. The modalities are not yet finalized yet but govt. will soon reveal the eligibility criteria and the complete procedure on How to Apply Online for Cattle Distribution Scheme.
This scheme will empower farmers, generate an additional source of income for farmers, increase in farmers income, boost milk production and to provide happiness to the farmers.
Other Decisions

The state govt. has released Rs. 50 crore for providing Rs. 4 incentive on every litre of milk supplied by farmers to govt. diaries. This includes Vijaya Dairy in Lalapet and other 3 diaries. For this purpose, govt. spends Rs. 100 crore every year.
Telangana govt. will establish a new market yard in 200 acres on the outskirts of city which will also promote meat export.
Govt. will supply 80 crore fish seed absolutely free to revive 46,000 lakes, water bodies and ponds under Mission Kakatiya.
The state govt. will distribute 50,000 two-wheelers, 2000 three-wheelers and other materials at 75% subsidy to fishermen to sell fish.
For better health care services to cattle, govt. will provide 100 additional mobile vans to the existing 100 vans & will also develop 2,132 veterinary hospitals.

Central govt. has now made an announcement to provide an award to Telangana State under Gopala Mitra Scheme.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
