
Telangana govt. has announced KCR Mega Health Cum Life Insurance Scheme for Ryots. Subsequently, the state govt. will provide an insurance cover of Rs. 5 lakh p.a for health-care and hospitalization and even in the case of death. Accordingly, KCR govt. is going to allocate Rs. 500 crore in Telnagana Budget 2018-19 for successful implementation of this health-cum-life insurance scheme. Moreover, this scheme will benefit around 70 lakh small and marginal farmers in the state.
Under Mega Health Cum Life Insurance Scheme, govt. will provide the insurance amount to the families of farmers in case of accidental death or death due to any natural cause. Henceforth, farmers will not have to pay any premium for this insurance coverage. Telangana state govt. will bear the entire premium amount for the benefit of farmers.
Latest Update – Telangana govt. is going to launch LIC New Insurance Scheme for Farmers to provide Rs. 5 lakh on the death of farmers – View Details



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

KCR announced this pro-farmer initiative in response to a farmer seeking insurance in Regional Conference of Mandal Level Farmers Coordination Committee. This Regional Rythu Samanvaya Committees awareness meeting event held at Ambedkar Stadium on 26 February 2018.
Telangana Mega Health Cum Life Insurance Scheme – Application Forms
Similar to other schemes, farmers have to fill the application forms to avail the benefits of this Mega Health Cum Life Insurance Scheme. Accordingly, KCR govt. will soon send the insurance application forms to the villages. Henceforth, FCC members will ensure that each and every farmer in rural areas fills this Insurance Form.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

FCC members are given the responsibility to provide insurance facilities to all ryots. Moreover, for the welfare of farmers, govt. is also going to start Input Assistance Scheme / Farmers Investment Support Scheme (FISS) to provide financial assistance of Rs. 4000 per acre for Yasangi and Kharif crops. 
Moreover, FISS Scheme is not for tenant farmers as the rules of Tenant Act are very strict. As per the rules in Tenant Act, tenant farmers are not actual farmers rather other farmers cultivate their land. Accordingly, around 97% of farmers in the state cultivates their land on their own instead of giving it on rent to other. 
Moreover, all types of orchards and non-tribal cultivating land are eligible for financial assistance under FISS Scheme. Henceforth, FISS scheme will protect the interest of land owners with total outlay of Rs. 12000 crore.
Minimum Support Price – MSP Issue of Farmers
CM KCR also responded on the question of Minimum Support Price (MSP) of the farmers. Central govt. has the authority to fix and announce the MSP of crops. Telangana govt. is making every possible effort to increase the MSP and is also raising this issue in the parliament. 
Telangana govt. seeks Rs. 2200 MSP for Paddy and also urges the Central govt. to enhance the MSP of Wheat. Furthermore, the state govt. will launch an agitation in support of farmers if Central govt. does not take any positive decision on MSP.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
