
The state government of Telangana is providing Mee Seva Health Card to all its employees. The objective of this card is to provide cashless treatment to State Government employees including the State Government pensioners along with their dependent family members. The services of Mee Seva Health Card will be provided through a network of empaneled hospitals of Aarogyasri Health Care Trust. 
The Aarogyasri Health Care Trust is implementing Mee Seva Health Card scheme under the supervision of State Government. This scheme will cover all the serving and retired employees of the state. Under the Health Card scheme, the government will provide a card or the card number in case the card is unavailable. The state government will collect a nominal fee of Rs. 120 from Gazette officers while Rs. 90 from non – gazette officers.
Under the scheme, the state government is providing cashless medical facilities to all employees who are 40 years or above. The beneficiary will get the healthcare card within the six months after completing the document formalities. Moreover, if both husband and wife are working in government jobs, then both are eligible to apply for health cards scheme.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Mee Seva Health Card Application Form
Below given the procedure to apply for the Mee Seva Card:-

Visit the official website at tg.meeseva.gov.in.
Now click the “Mee Seva Service Forms” under ‘Quick Links’ section or directly click on this link.
Next window will open, here click the “Aarogyasri” tab and then click “MeeSeva Application Employees”.
Afterward, the Health Card Application Form for Employees will appear on the screen.
Below given the screenshot of the application form.
Mee Seva Health Card Application Form
The candidate can download the Health Card Application Form for Employees with the guidelines in PDF format. Below given the link.
Health Card Application Form for Employees
In addition, the candidates can also download the Health Card Application Form for Pensioners with the guidelines in PDF format. Below given the link.
Health Card Application Form for Pensioners 
After downloading the application form, candidates have to fill this application form for availing the scheme.
After completing the format, visit the Meeseva centre to submit the application form along with the required documents.
After reaching the Mee Seva Center, candidates have to submit the application form with the fee charges.
Afterwards, candidates will get an acknowledgement slip which acts a proof of submitting the application form.

Under Employee Health Scheme, the government employees and their dependent family members can avail Rs. 2 lakhs per treatment. However, there would be no limit to the number of treatment. In addition, If the hospital charge is exceeded Rs. 2 lakhs then the treatment will continue. But the exceeded amount will be settled by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Aarogyasri Healthcare trust. The beneficiary of treatment package will also get the consultation with the doctor till 10 days after the discharge from the hospital.
Mee Seva Health Card Document Required
Below given the screenshot of the list of the required documents which would be necessary at the time submitting the application form in the Mee seva centre.
Mee Seva Health Card Document List


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The candidate has to visit the Mee Seva centre with the above documents. The candidate can also check the details of the nearest center clicking on the below link. 
Mee Seva Authorized Centers
Detailed information about eligibility criteria and required documents is available at this link.
Mee Seva Health Card Application Status
Furthermore, the applicant can check the application status by going to the official website tg.meeseva.gov.in. Here applicant has to click of “Know your application status” where the applicant can enter the application number and check the Application status.
The candidates can also call at the helpline number – 1100 or can contact the department officers at the contact details mentioned at below link.
Contact Details





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
