
तेलंगाना में नए राशन कार्ड (खाद्य सुरक्षा कार्ड) हेतु आवेदन पत्र PDF डाउनलोड करें हिंदी में, राशन कार्ड सूची 2019-2020 में अपना नाम शामिल करने के लिए जरुरी कागज़ात और पूरी प्रक्रिया जानें

Table of Contents

Telangana Ration Card (Food Security Card) Online Application FormTelanagana Civil Supplies Department Forms Download PDFWhat is the Eligibility Criteria for Telangana Ration CardList of Documents Required for New Ration Card in TelanganaHow to Check Name in Telangana New Ration Card List 2020Check Telangana Ration Card Application Status OnlineAn Overview of Telangana Ration CardHelpline Number (Toll Free) for Telangana Ration Card
TS Food Security Card Download | Food Security Cards by Aadhar Card in Telangana | Apply Ration Card Online Telangana | Telangana Ration Card Apply Form PDF | White Ration Card in Telangana | National Food Security Card Download
Food and Civil Supplies Department of Telangana has released the TS Ration Card List 2019-2020 (Village Wise). All the citizens who have made fresh registration for the Ration Card / Food Security Cards can now check their name in the Eligible List of NFSA / BPL / APL beneficiaries. Moreover, candidates whose name does not appears in the TS Ration Card New List 2020 and wants to apply for name inclusion in new Ration card list (राशन कार्ड सूची) can apply in the prescribed format at Meeseva centers or at ts.meeseva.telangana.gov.in or www.civilsupplies.telangana.gov.in.
Ration Card in Telangana is a necessary document for the poor people to take benefits of most government schemes. Accordingly, people can purchase rashan at subsidized rates from Ration Shops located nearby. Telangana Ration Card Apply Form PDF is now available for the general citizens of the state. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Telangana govt. has made this ration card new list public to make the process of finding name easier. Now candidates can search their name in the APL BPL List. For inclusion of their name in Ration card list (राशन कार्ड सूची), people can also make new ration card form download in Telangana PDF as given below.
Telangana Ration Card (Food Security Card) Online Application Form
Below is the complete procedure to download the Telangana Ration Card Online Application Form:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


In order to make fresh application for the Ration Card in Telangana, candidates can visit the official Meeseva website at https://ts.meeseva.telangana.gov.in/meeseva/home.htm
Click on “Other Links” section present on the left side of the page and then click at the “Application Forms” link
TS Meeseva Application Forms Download
Afterwards, the Telangana Civil Supplies Department application forms will appear as shown below:-
Telangana Civil Supplies Dept Application Forms

To download application form, click on “Civil Supplies Department” option, here people will get different types of application forms. Click at the following links:-

Apply Ration Card Online Telangana
Telangana Ration Card Apply Form PDF
Food Security Cards by Aadhar Card in Telangana
TS Food Security Card Download


After downloading the application form, take a print out of TS new ration card application form and fill all the details accurately. For more information on how to apply online for Telangana New Ration Card / Food Security Card, click the link – http://www.civilsupplies.telangana.gov.in/HOW%20TO%20APPLY%20FOR%20RATION%20CARD.pdf

The official website of Food & Civil Supplies department of Telangana is ts.meeseva.telangana.gov.in. Candidates must submit a copy of original resident proof, copy of identity proof of Aadhar Card and passport size photograph of applicant along with the completed application form.
Telanagana Civil Supplies Department Forms Download PDF
All the directly download the forms by the Telangana Civil Supplies Department through the links given below:-


Corrections in Food Security Card


Conversion of White Ration Card in Telangana to Pink Card Application Form


Issue of new authorization for FP shops Application Form


Replacement of all existing licenses for Petroleum, LPG and Kerosene Products Application Form


Replacement of Existing FP Shop Authorization Application Form


FP Shop Dealer Payments Application Form


Deletion of Member in Ration Card Application Form


FP SHOP RENEWAL Application Form


House Hold Head Modifications Application Form


New Gas Connection Application Form


Ration Card Member Migration Application Form


Ration Card Missing Details in Database Application Form Copy


Ration Card Modifications (EPDS INTEGRATION) Application Form


Ration Card Transfer Application Form


Surrender of Ration Card Application Form


Farmer Registration Form for Paddy Procurement


Grant of Licensing and regulation of Supplies of Kerosene Products


Grant of Licensing and regulation of Supplies of LPG Gas Products


Grant of Licensing and regulation of supplies of Petroleum Products Application Form


Registration certificate for Transporting Petroleum Products


Renewal of Licensing and regulation of Supplies of Kerosene Products


Renewal of Licensing and regulation of Supplies of LPG Gas Products


Renewal of Licensing and regulation of Supplies of Petroleum Products


Renewal of Registration certificate for Transporting Petroleum Products


Food security Card Transfer application


All the candidates can download the Telangana Civil Supplies Dept. Application Forms PDF and can fill the details in the prescribed format.
Application Fees
There is no application form filling fee and there is no requirement to pay any fees while applying online for new ration card in Telangana. However, applicants can collect their ration cards from the concerned authorities on making a payment of Rs. 10 per copy.
Timelines for Issuing Ration Card in Telangana
All the applicants can submit the complete Telangana Ration Card online application form and new ration cards would be issued within 15 days of submission of application. 
Linking of Aadhaar Card with Ration Card
People can now link their Unique Identification Number or Aadhaar Card with their ration card. This can be done online by visiting the official portal and then clicking at the “Link to UID” link.
What is the Eligibility Criteria for Telangana Ration Card
All the applicants must meet the basic eligibility criteria to get a new ration card in Telangana:-
a) Applicants who are permanent resident of Telangana can apply.
b) Households not already having ration card in the state are eligible.
c) Newly married couples can apply for new ration card.
d) Citizens having temporary ration cards whose date has been expired are eligible.
It is important to note that the issue of new ration card in Telangana would be based on the household income as well as economic conditions of the family.
List of Documents Required for New Ration Card in Telangana
Below is the complete list of documents required to apply online for new ration card in Telangana:-

Residential proof such as Voter ID, Driving License, Aadhaar Card (Scanned Copy)
Age Certificate (Scanned Copy)
Identity Proof like Voter ID, Driving Licence, Aadhar Card (Scanned Copy)
Income proof of the family (Scanned Copy)
Recent Passport Size Photograph of the applicant
Valid Mobile Number / E-mail ID
Self Declaration and Certificate issued by Ward Councillor/ Pradhan
Tenancy Agreement (if applicable)

In case of non-possession of above mentioned documents, applications for new ration cards are liable to get rejected.
How to Check Name in Telangana New Ration Card List 2020
All those people who had already applied online can now check their name in the Telangana new ration card list 2020 through the link given below:-
Telangana Ration Card List 2020
Check Telangana Ration Card Application Status Online
Upon submission of the application form, applicants can track the application status till the issue of new ration card in Telangana. In order to check the ration card application status, applicants will have follow the given steps:-

Visit the official link at https://ts.meeseva.telangana.gov.in/
At this page, click at the “E-Status” link and then click at the “Status of the new / defending ration card” link.
Click at the respective links of district for Ration Card Status.
Afterwards, click at the “Application Status of New Ration Card” option and verify details.

Finally, the new ration card status of the applicants in Telangana will appear online.
An Overview of Telangana Ration Card
Here is an overview of Telangana Ration Card which is mentioned in the table below:-


1.
Service Type
Ration Card


2.
State Name
Telangana


3.
Article Category
List / Status / Application


4.
Concerned Department
Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department, Govt. of Telangana


5.
Applicable Year
2020


6.
Mode of Checking Status / List / Application
Online


7.
Official Website
https://ts.meeseva.telangana.gov.in/


Helpline Number (Toll Free) for Telangana Ration Card
People can now contact the Food, Civil Supplies & Consumer Affairs Department Telangana. The contact details are given below:-
Helpline number – 1967
Toll free contact no. – 1800-425-9339
Official website – https://ts.meeseva.telangana.gov.in/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: tg.meeseva.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
