
Tripura government has launched CCL scheme for female employees to help the working females for better care of their children. Subsequently, women employees of the state having minor children can take 730 days paid leave under Child Care Scheme during their entire service life.
Al the female employees will get paid leave salary even for their children sickness or their examinations. Moreover, this leave salary is equal to the actual salary of the employee. Female employees can avail this service for taking care of up to 2 children and for their basic necessities.
Female employees of Tripura state can avail this scheme only once in their entire tenure of service. Furthermore, women can take leave of uninterrupted two years for child care and also for sickness and examination purposes.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

CCL Scheme for Female Employees
The important features and highlights of this scheme are as follows:-

The council of Ministers approves this Child Care Leave Scheme.
Subsequently, all the female employees having children below the age of 18 years can get leave for maximum 730 days in their entire service life.
The state govt. is not going to deduct the salary but the initial condition is that the employee must be working under state government.
In addition to this, employees must work in the state of Tripura. Moreover, the female employees can avail this service only once.
Accordingly, this scheme is necessary keeping in view the better nourishment of the children.
Children’s in this growing stage of life seek attention of the parents especially of the mother.
Henceforth, govt. is starting this scheme for all the female employees serving in the state.

Supreme Court Decision on CCL Scheme
As per the decision of the Honorable Supreme Court in 2014 which stated that a women employee working under Central Government can take an uninterrupted leave for 2 years for child care. Moreover, the reasons for examination and sickness are also inclusive for the leave purpose.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Following the decision of Supreme Court, the officials of the Tripura state met several times to carry forwad this initiative. Finally, govt. decided to facilitate the in-service females working in the state. They can avail thee benefits of this scheme for proper nourishment of the children. Furthermore, this scheme is essential and will mark its contribution in the progress of the state. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
