
Tripura govt. has announced to launch Chief Minister’s B.Ed Anuprerana Yojana 2018. Under this scheme, the state govt. will provide interest subsidy on bank loans to B.Ed trainee teachers. This scheme will encourage students to pursue B.Ed Training Course to become eligible for teaching jobs. In this scheme, around 5000 candidates will be sponsored. 
However, this subsidy on interest of bank loan is only applicable for those teachers who are taking admissions in B.Ed colleges with National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) accreditation. 
Govt. is going to start the first batch under this Bank Loan Interest Subsidy Scheme from the current academic session. This scheme will cost Rs. 35.5 crore per annum to the state government.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

CM B.Ed Anuprerana Yojana in Tripura – Features
The state govt. of Tripura is going to launch this scheme for those who cannot afford free of cost B.Ed training. The important features and highlights of this govt. loan scheme for B.Ed Teachers is as follows:-

Govt. will provide interest subsidy on loans given to B.Ed training purposes.
Students who are going to take admissions in B.Ed colleges with NAAC accreditation are eligible.
This scheme will cost Rs. 35.5 p.a to Tripura government.
The batch will start from this session onward.

All B.Ed trainee teachers can now make repayment of loans after they get suitable jobs. The trainees will not have to pay any interest for the first 4 years. Govt. will soon sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with different banks to start the loan process for B.Ed Training.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Need for Interest Subsidy on Bank Loans for Teachers
There are 4,385 schools in the state which includes govt. / govt. aided schools and aided madrasas. There is severe shortage of trained teachers in such institutions. There are 41,912 teachers in govt. service and only 9,022 possess the necessary training as per Right to Education and National Council of Teachers Education (NCTE).
There are around 32,000 teachers serving in different schools without proper training. The state govt. wants to ensure proper availability of trained teachers as per national guidelines through CM B.Ed Anuprerana Yojana. Previously, SC terminates jobs of 10,323 school teachers from Tripura owing to faulty recruitment process. Most of these teachers could not fulfill the eligibility criteria as per NCTE guidelines.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
