
The state government of Tripura has launched the central government’s ambitious LPG distribution scheme for BPL families across the state. Under the scheme, free cooking gas connections would be provided to the BPL households. The scheme is named as Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana and is financially assisted by the central government.
At present, the LPG coverage in Tripura stands at 48.9 percent and there are about 9.22 lakh households with LPG connection in the state. The LPG connection is being distributed under Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) throughout the country after the launch of the scheme by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on 1st May 2016 from Ballia in Uttar Pradesh.
The government would add 40 new LPG distributors and 40 new retail outlets to strengthen the supply of the LPG in the state.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY)
Under the PM Ujjwala Yojana, government is providing free LPG connection with a financial assistance of Rs. 1600 to BPL household beneficiary. This scheme is also covers the cost of LPG connection installation, suraksha hose, domestic pressure regulator and domestic gas consumer card etc. EMI facility is also available for the BPL household beneficiaries to pay the cost of their first refill and gas stove.
The preference will be given to the weaker sections of the society under the scheme. Under the Ujjwala Yojana, various sizes of cylinders (like 14.2 kg, 5 kg, etc.) are being offered depending upon the demand of householders.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Under PMUY, all the connections will be registered and given to women head of the households. Many poor woman households has been identified as the ones who are still using conventional and dangerous fuel for cooking. The oil marketing companies (OMCs) are distributing the free LPG connection to the women belonging to the Below Poverty Line (BPL) under the scheme. The households whose name is present in the SECC-2011 data list are eligible to take the scheme benefits.
For a subsidized LPG cylinder, a person who is registered as BPL category whether they reside in rural or urban areas can proceed with their BPL card to the nearest LPG distributor and register themselves under PMUY.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
