
The CM of Tripura, Biplab Kumar Dev has launched Atal Jaldhara Yojana to ensure free water supply connection to every family in the state. This scheme is going to resolve the problem of providing clean water to each and every household. This domestic water supply connection scheme is a tribute to the former Prime Minister of India, Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji. Tripura govt. will provide free water supply connections to provide pure and drinking water. 
PM Narendra Modi has given the clarion call to carry forward the legacy of Mahatma Gandhi to ensure Swaraj in the nation. Atal Jaldhara Yojana is a step forward in that direction.
Through this water supply connection scheme, the state govt. is going to realize the philosophy of Antyodaya given by Pt. Deendayal Upadhyaya.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Atal Jaldhara Yojana in Tripura
Inspired by PM Shri Narendra Modi ji’s vision of #NewIndia, our State Government has launched yet another pro-people scheme- ‘Atal Jaldhara Yojana’ today. In Atal Jaldhara Yojana, the state govt. will provide free domestic water supply connections to each and every family in the state. This scheme is going to transform the state of Tripura into a model state and will ensure that the fruits of development reaches till the last person in the society.
Sh. Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji has dedicated his entire life towards nation-building. His continuous efforts to usher an era of development were exemplary. All the schemes and initiatives that were initiated during his tenure are considered to be a hallmark of good governance in the country. Atal Jaldhara Yojana is a tribute to such an inspirational person, Sh. AB Vajpayee. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The state govt. is taking a leap towards carrying immortal legacy of working for the development of each and every citizen of our nation. 

Inspired by PM Shri @narendramodi ji's vision of #NewIndia, our State Government has launched yet another pro-people scheme- 'Atal Jaldhara Yojana' today.
Under the scheme, we shall provide a free-of-cost domestic water supply connection to each & every household in #Tripura. pic.twitter.com/a3nlNiyjjU
— Biplab Kumar Deb (@BjpBiplab) November 22, 2018

অটল জলধারা যোজনা
ধানমন্ত্রী নরেন্দ্র মোদী জির নতুন ভারতের লক্ষ্য থেকে অনুপ্রানিত হয়ে আমাদের রাজ্য সরকার আজ আরেকটি জনমূখী প্রকল্প চালু করল- ‘অটল জলধারা যোজনা’।
এই প্রকল্পের দ্বারা আমরা রাজ্যের প্রতিটি ঘরে ঘরে বিনামূল্যে পানীয় জলের সংযোগ প্রদান করব। অটল জলধারা যোজনার মধ্য দিয়ে রাজ্য সরকার ত্রিপুরা রাজ্যে প্রতিটি ঘরে পরিশ্রুত পানীয় জল সরবরাহ করতে দৃঢ় প্রতিজ্ঞ ৷
প্রধানমন্ত্রী নরেন্দ্র মোদি জী আদরনীয় বাপু জীর স্বরাজ মন্ত্রে উজ্জীবিত হয়ে দেশে সু রাজ প্রতিষ্ঠার লক্ষ্যে ঝাপিয়ে পড়ার ডাক দিয়েছেন। অটল জলধারা যোজনা এই লক্ষ্যকে সামনে রেখেই নেয়া একটি বলিষ্ঠ পদক্ষেপ ৷





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
