


Table of Contents

West Bengal Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme Application Form PDFStep to fill WB Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme Application Form 2020 OnlineList of Documents Required for WB Karma Sathi Prakalpa SchemeEligibility Criteria to Apply for Self Employment Scheme in WB StateMajor Benefits to Karma Sathi Prakalpa BeneficiariesObjective of Karma Sathi Scheme Prakalpa 2020Incentives Under Karma Sathi Prakalpa SchemeKey Features of WB Karma Sathi Prakalpa SchemeHow to Check the Beneficiary list of Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme 2020-21Official Launch of WB Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme 2020 Background
West Bengal government has launched Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme 2020 for unemployed youths. Under this WB Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme, the state govt. will provide loans upto Rs. 2 lakh to jobless youth to make them self reliant. In the recent Budget 2020-21, the state govt. has sanctioned Rs. 500 crore to make urban unemployment youths self dependent. Loans are to be given to take up various income generating projects. People can now check apply online process, how to fill online application form, check eligibility and read guidelines.
State Cooperation Department of West Bengal will implement the WB Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme. Every year, the state govt. will provide soft loans to 1 lakh youths to start their own business and to turn them into entrepreneurs.
From this loan money, youths can provide themselves with self employment opportunity and can become job creators rather than job seekers.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

West Bengal Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme Application Form PDF
Just like loan application forms under various govt. schemes, the state govt. of West Bengal is also inviting Karma Sathi Prakalpa Apply Online Form. The direct link to download Karma Sathi Prakalpa application form PDF is given below:-
https://instapdf.in/karma-sathi-prakalpa-application-form-west-bengal/


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The WB Karma Sathi Prakalpa Application Form PDF will appear as shown below:-
Karma Sathi Prakalpa Application Form PDF
All the interested candidates can download this WB Karma Sathi Prakalpa application form in PDF format and submit it to concerned authorities for approval. WB govt. has already sanctioned Rs. 500 crore to make urban unemployed youths self dependent.
Step to fill WB Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme Application Form 2020 Online
Here is the complete procedure to apply online for WB Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme 2020:-
Step 1- Visit the Official Website WB Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme i.e. https://wb.gov.in/government-schemes.aspxStep 2- On Homepage, Click on “Apply Now” Button and application form page will displayed on screen.Step 3- Now enter the required details (Mention all the details such as name, father/ husband name, date of birth, gender, caste and other information) and upload documents.Step 4- Click on “Submit” Button for final submission of application.
Note: Regarding the application of the scheme, it has been said that the concerned officials should provide information soon. Check the link for more details – https://wbmsme.gov.in/sites/all/themes/anonymous/pdf/SAR_706_Micro_Small_Deptt._No._18011_MSMT.pdf
List of Documents Required for WB Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme
Here is the list of documents required for the West Bengal Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme 2020:-
Passport Size PhotoAdhaar CardAddress Proof10th or 12th MarksheetEducational certificateVoter ID Card
The applicants must attach these documents with the completed application form to get it approved from the concerned authorities.
Eligibility Criteria to Apply for Self Employment Scheme in WB State
Only those applicants fulfilling the below mentioned criteria will be eligible to apply for self employment scheme:-
Candidates must be a permanent resident of West Bengal.Applicant youth must be unemployed and in search of job.It is only applicable to such jobless candidates who have completed their 10th, 12th in the recognized.
All such willing applicant youth who wish to prosper in their business and needs some money to start off with can apply for this Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme.
Major Benefits to Karma Sathi Prakalpa Beneficiaries
The new employment generation projects will help in ensuring the means of livelihood for the unemployed youths in the urban part of the state. The West Bengal government will provide Rs. 2 lakhs to the jobless candidates to start their business. This scheme will provide financial help and development chance to about 3 lakh youngsters of the state in the coming 3 years.
Objective of Karma Sathi Scheme Prakalpa 2020
The state government conceptualized the new scheme following the instruction of the Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. The main purpose of the scheme is to make unemployed youths self-reliant.
A new scheme “Karma Sathi Prakalpa” was launched by Bengal Government. One lakh unemployed youth will be provided soft loans and subsidies to make them self-reliant.The Chief Minister added that the unemployment rate in West Bengal had reduced.When then the unemployment rate in India is at an all-time high of 24%, the unemployment rate in Bengal reduced by 40%.
Under the scheme, the state government has set a target of providing loans to one lakh youths every year. Each beneficiary can avail a loan up to Rs 2 lakh under the scheme. Apart from loans, the government will also provide subsidy for taking up new projects.
Incentives Under Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme
The incentive amount of Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme for the jobless youth is stated here as follows:- 
This scheme has been started by the concerned authority of the state, through which a loan of about 200000 rupees will be provided every year. Till date, 1 lakh beneficiaries have been selected as beneficiaries by the Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme. About 500 crore rupees have been completed by the state government for this scheme.
Key Features of WB Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme
The salient features of the WB Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme are as follows:-
Under the Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme in West Bengal state, easy loans will be provided to the youth for self employment. The loans will be provided up to a total amount of Rs. 200000 per candidate.Through the loans provided to the unemployed youth, they will be able to create an environment that will provide them with good jobs and opportunities.WB govt. has already sanctioned Rs. 500 crore to make urban unemployed youths self dependent.The loans will be provided by the state government-owned cooperative banks. 
It is expected that unemployed youths will make the use of this assistance amount to take up small manufacturing activities and will therefore become self-reliant.
How to Check the Beneficiary list of Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme 2020-21
Step 1- Visit the Official Website WB Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme i.e. https://wb.gov.in/government-schemes.aspx
Step 2- On Homepage, Click on “Beneficiary list of Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme” Button.
Step 3- Beneficiary list will displayed on screen. People can Search Name in beneficiary list.
Official Launch of WB Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme 2020 
The officials of the WB Cooperation department have already started taking necessary steps for proper execution of Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme. The new employment generation projects will help in ensuring the means of livelihood for the unemployed youths in the urban part of the state. At present, there are many scopes present for self employment generation and Karma Sathi Prakalpa will enable youths to take a step ahead in taking up projects to stand on their own feet.
GoWB launches a new scheme ‘Karma Sathi Prakalpa’ for the #youth. 1 lac youth can avail soft loans and other subsidies through this scheme. When the unemployment rate in the country is 24%, an all-time high, Bengal’s unemployment rate has reduced by 40%. #InternationalYouthDay— Banglar Gorbo Mamata (@BanglarGorboMB) August 12, 2020 
As per the proposal, around 3 lakh youths would be brought under Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme over the next 3 years. Each year, West Bengal govt. will provide loans of upto Rs. 2 lakhs to more than 1 lakh youths. Loans would be provided through Co-operative banks. Jobless youths can avail this facility to setup small manufacturing and trading activities.
Background
Mamata Banerjee led West Bengal govt. has taken many initiatives in past 9 years to ensure generation of job opportunities. In addition, such initiatives to provide financial assistance are helping youths to take up their own projects. WB Cooperation dept. is already providing required support to self help groups which helps in improving economy in both rural and urban parts of state. Now the unemployed youths in the urban areas would be benefited with Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: http://www.millenniumpost.in/kolkata/state-govt-sanctions-rs-500-crore-under-karma-sathi-prakalpa-400535
SAVE AS PDF
