


Table of Contents

WB Aikyashree Minority Scholarship Scheme 2020 Apply Online FormTypes of Scholarships in WB Aikyashree SchemeWB Aikhyashree Minority Scholarship EligibilityRates of WB Aikyashree Minority Scholarship
West Bengal government has launched a new Aikyashree Scheme 2020 to provide scholarship to students belonging to minority community. Fill West Bengal Aikyashree Minority Scholarship Scheme 2020 Online Registration / Application form at wbmdfcscholarship.in. The WB Aikyashree Minority Scholarship Scheme will shoulder the burden of providing scholarship to minorities. This decision comes after half of the applications in the Bangla state were not able to secure the center’s scholarship last year. This initiative will put an additional burden of Rs. 800 crore on struggling state govt. exchequer.
The West Bengal Aikyashree Minority Scholarship Scheme 2020 will address the growing aspiration for education in minority communities. This scheme assumes its significance in the backdrop of ongoing agitation against Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). The WB Aikyashree Scheme provides minority students with more avenues for socio-economic and educational mobility by extending financial support and encouragement.
WB govt. has decided to setup Aikyashree – West Bengal State Scholarships for Minority Students in West Bengal to be fully funded from the State budget from the financial year 2019-20 onwards. The West Bengal Minorities Development & Finance Corporation (WBMDFC) will be the Nodal Organization for this scheme.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

WB Aikyashree Minority Scholarship Scheme 2020 Apply Online Form
This WB Aikyashree Scheme assures that the state govt. of West Bengal does not discriminate between students from minority communities. Applicants can now make new WB Aikyashree Scheme registration at the official website. The complete details of the West Bengal Aikyashree Minority Scholarship Scheme 2020 are mentioned in the next sections. People can now apply online and fill West Bengal Aikyashree Minority Scholarship Scheme 2020 Online Registration / Application form and access the official website at links below:-
http://www.wbmdfcscholarship.in/
http://www.wbmdfcscholarship.gov.in/
http://www.wbmdfc.org/scholarship.php
Types of Scholarships in WB Aikyashree Scheme
There are 3 types of scholarships which would be given to students from minority communities which are as follows:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Pre Matric Scholarship – For meritorious students from Class 1st to Class 10th. The main objective is to encourage minority community to send their children to school and to reduce drop out rate.
Post Matric Scholarship – For meritorious minority students from Class 11th to Ph.D. This scheme will encourage students to continue pursuit of higher education.
Merit-cum-Means Scholarship – For minority students pursuing technical & professional courses. This scheme is to support students to pursue professional and technical studies and thereby raising their employment potential.

WB Aikhyashree Minority Scholarship Eligibility
The candidates must follow the following eligibility criteria to become eligible for Aikyashree Minority Scholarship Scheme 2020:-

For Pre-matric and Post matric Scholarship –

Applicant must be a domicile of West Bengal.
Students must be studying in a School/ Institution recognized by an educational Board/ Council/ University of the State/ Central Government.
He / She must have secured at-least 50% marks or equivalent grade in the previous final examination.
The total annual family income from all sources must not exceed Rs. 2 lakh p.a
Those students who are studying in institutes outside West Bengal will not be eligible for pre-matric or post-matric scholarship.


For Merit Cum Means Scholarship –

Applicants must be domicile of West Bengal.
He / She must have got admission in technical / professional course.
Student must have secured at-least 50% marks in last higher secondary / graduation examinations.
The total annual family income from all sources must not exceed Rs. 2.5 lakh p.a
The students who are residents of West Bengal but pursuing studies in listed institutions located outside West Bengal, as may be notified from time to time by the West Bengal Minorities Development and Finance Corporation, are also eligible for applying.



Rates of WB Aikyashree Minority Scholarship
The proposed rates for WB Aikyashree Minority Scholarship Scheme are shown here:-
WB Aikyashree Minority Scholarship Rates
The eligible students will get Aikyashree scholarships in order of merit and subject to the budgetary allocation by WB government. For renewal, the applicant will be eligible for the scholarship if he/she has obtained 50% marks in his/her previous examination. The applications will be received online through a portal designed for this purpose. The applications will be verified by the Nodal Teachers of the respective School. The selection will be made as per the eligibility criteria and the disbursement will be made through Direct Bank Transfer (DBT) mode. To check the conditions, click at the link http://wbmdfcscholarship.in/main/guidelines
In 2019-2020, state administration sent 32 lakh applications from West Bengal for central scholarship for minority students. But the central govt. only sanctioned 16 lakh scholarships. Half of the total applications for central scheme were left out as students did not qualify for eligibility of 50% marks in previous examination. The WB state govt. has asked about the data of these students from central govt. but received no response. So, the state govt. has decided to launch Aikyashree Scheme from 2020 year and seek applications from minority category students.
Under the WB Aikyashree Scheme 2020, the state govt. has already received around 42 lakh applications from minority students. The state authorities had carried out intensive campaign to make Aikyashree Scheme successful. Moreover, WB state govt. has not fixed any specific criteria other than family income limit to apply for Aikyashree Minority Scholarship Scheme.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: http://www.wbmdfc.org/scholarship.php, http://www.wbmdfcscholarship.in/, http://www.wbmdfcscholarship.gov.in/
SAVE AS PDF
