


Table of Contents

Rupashree Prakalpa Application Form DownloadRupashree Prakalpa – Eligibility CriteriaList of Required Documents for Rupashree SchemeObjectives & Benefits of Rupashree Prakalpa
West Bengal govt. has launched Rupashree Scheme for girls above 18 years of age. All the girls will now get a one time financial assistance of Rs. 25,000 at the time of their marriage. This scheme will help around 6 lakh girls belonging to economically weaker families with total outlay of Rs. 1500 crore. WB govt. has released the application forms and any adolescent girl can perform Rupashree Prakalpa Application Form Download to avail benefits. 
This is a major initiative of the state govt. after Kanyashree, Yuvashree and Sabuj Sathi Scheme of WB government. All the girls whose family annual income from all sources is less than Rs. 1.5 lakh can avail this marriage assistance. 
This scheme will help poor families who borrow a huge sum at interest for the marriage of daughters and thus are forced to live in depression.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rupashree Prakalpa Application Form Download
Just like other marriage assistance schemes, WB govt. can soon open a dedicated portal for the submission of rupashree scheme online application form. However till then, the forms are available through offline mode. All the candidates can read the eligibility criteria and every applicant must fulfill it. Afterwards, eligible applicants can download rupashree prakalpa application form in pdf format through the link given below:-
Rupashree Prakalpa Application Form (PDF)


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rupashree application form will appear as follows:-
WB Rupashree Prakalpa Application Form Download
These application forms are also available at the Municipality Office or from BDO office or SDO Office. All the applicants are required to submit the filled in application form before the date of marriage and then submit it BDO or municipality office. Accordingly, WB govt. will credit Rs. 25000 directly into the bank account of the applicant.
Rupashree Prakalpa – Eligibility Criteria
The candidates must fulfill the following eligibility criteria to fill get financial assistance:-

All the applicant girls whose marriage is going to take place must have attained 18 years of age.
The annual family income must not exceed Rs. 1.5 lakh.
All the applicants must be a permanent resident of West Bengal.
There is no minimum qualification necessary to avail marriage assistance.

List of Required Documents for Rupashree Scheme
As the application process is offline so the candidates must attach the following documents with the completed rupashree prakalpa application form:-


List of Documents


D.O.B Proof
Id Proof


All details of Bride & Bridegroom
Marriage Invitation Card


Declaration Copy of Bride about Marriage
Bank Account Details


After attaching the documents, submit the completed application form to the BDO, SDO or Municipality Office. All the concerned authorities will verify the given information and then will pass the application.
All the selected / passed applications will get entitled to the receipt of Rupashree assistance directly into their bank accounts before 1 week of marriage.
Objectives & Benefits of Rupashree Prakalpa
WB govt. has decided the complete roll-out of Rupashree Prakalpa which has the following benefits:-

Rupashree Scheme will bring reduction in Child Marriage.
This scheme will reduce the burden of marriage expenses of parents of girl child by giving one time assistance for marriage of their daughters.
All such schemes like Kanyashree, Rupashree will increase the education rate of girl child.
WB govt. has made a budgetary allocation of Rs. 1500 crore for this scheme.






(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
