
West Bengal govt. has started Online Marriage Registration for Couples. Subsequently, candidates can register their marriage online and get marriage certificate instantly. The primary objective is to minimize usage of paper and to ease down the marriage registry procedures including process of getting marriage certificates. Accordingly, this WB Marriage Registration Portal will provide information on the documents required for marriage.
WB govt. has launched an e-registry system to ease down the process of marriage registration. For this reason, govt. is providing training to the Marriage Registrars to handle the online applications made through the new portal / online process.
Moreover, this new system will reduce the marriage registration fees in West Bengal. This procedure will cost less than Rs. 1000 (present rate) for marriage registry in West Bengal.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

West Bengal Online Marriage Registration Procedure
The state govt. has launched a dedicated portal where candidates can register online. Accordingly, both the bride and bridegroom have to fill the application form with Proof of Age (Scanned Copy), Address Proof (Scanned Copy) and other essential documents. 
Afterwards, couples will receive certified copies of their registry as acknowledgement. Moreover, the entire system to get Marriage certificate is transparent, efficient and paperless.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

West Bengal Online Marriage Registration
In the initial phase, WB govt. is providing training to around 200 registrars in order to handle the online requests for marriage registration. Subsequently, the state govt. has launched this e-registry for marriage in various local police station areas of Hoogly and Kolkata districts.
As per the official reports, govt. was planning for this initiative from a long duration. Now, this system is under surveillance to resolve any technical problems in this marriage registration system. 
Note – Although the marriage registrations of couples are going online but the couples are not allowed to fill the application form for online marriage registration from their home. This new software for registry of marriages will remain available at the offices of the Marriage Registrars.
This new online registry of marriage is transparent, efficient and cheaper than the previous system. Furthermore, couples need not have to make unnecessary visits at the office of the Marriage Registrar.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
