
West Bengal govt. invites Manabik Prakalpa Scheme application forms to provide Rs. 1,000 as monthly pension to persons with disabilities (PWDs). People can download the WB Manabik Scheme Form PDF at birbhum.gov.in to apply online for handicapped pension scheme in West Bengal. Manobik scheme was launched in 2018 for disabled persons to benefit around 2 lakh differently abled people. 
On the occasion of International Day of Persons with Disabilities, CM has announced that handicap persons with more than 40% disability can avail this monthly pension of Rs. 1000. The state govt. has allocated a sum of Rs. 250 crore for the successful implementation of Manabik Prakalpa Scheme.
People can check the guidelines in the Manabik Scheme PDF and can also download the application form which may be submitted to the concerned authorities to get entitled to monthly pension benefits.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

West Bengal Manabik Prakalpa Scheme Application Form PDF Download
The International Day of Persons with Disabilities is observed annually by the United Nations since 1992 with an aim to promote the rights and well-being of persons with disabilities in all spheres of society. At this occasion, CM has announced to launch the Manabik Prakalpa Scheme for persons with disabilities (PWDs). All the disabled people can download the Manabik Application Form West Bengal through the link given below:- 

West Bengal Manabik Scheme Application Form PDF
The Manabik Prakalpa Scheme application form will appear as follows:-
WB Manabik Scheme Application Form
Here people can fill all the necessary details including personal details, contact details, disability details and bank account details accurately in the downloaded Manabik Scheme Form.
Candidates must also attach the supporting documents which are as follows:-

Residential Certificate (Self declaration) (Scanned Copy)
Disability Certificate from appropriate authority duly self attested (Scanned Copy)
Income Certificate (Self declaration) (Scanned Copy)
Scanned Copy of Aadhaar (Self attested)
Scanned Copy of Voter ID (Self attested)
Scanned Copy of Ration Card (Self attested)
Scanned Copy of Bank Pass Book (Self attested)



Candidates can also submit the complete application form to the concerned authorities to avail monthly pension benefits.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

WB Manabik Scheme Guidelines for Handicapped Pension
To avail the benefits of handicapped pension scheme in West Bengal, candidates can download the Manabik Scheme guidelines. To download the Manabik Prakalpa Scheme guidelines, click the link given below:-
WB Manabik Scheme Guidelines PDF 
Candidates can check the guidelines to know about the Manabik Scheme eligibility criteria, where to submit the application form, verification and sanction of Manabik pension. The official statement of the CM of West Bengal is shown below:- 

Today is International Day of Persons with Disabilities. In 2018, we launched the ‘Manobik’ scheme, wherein persons with 40% or more disabilities will receive a monthly pension of Rs 1,000. Two lakh people will be benefitted. We have allocated Rs 250 crore for this scheme
— Mamata Banerjee (@MamataOfficial) December 3, 2018

Candidates can also visit the official website birbhum.gov.in to get more details about the Manabik Prakalpa Scheme.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
