


Table of Contents

WB Nijashree Housing Scheme Online Application FormList of Documents for West Bengal Nijashree Housing SchemeNijoshree Prokolpo Flats Location & Brochure DownloadNijashree Awas Yojana – Flats Price & Specifications
West Bengal govt. invites WB Nijashree Housing Scheme online application form at wbhousing.gov.in for 1 BHK and 2 BHK flats to poor people. People from lower income group (LIG) having less than Rs. 15,000 income and middle income group (MIG) having less than Rs. 30,000 income can now apply online for WB Nijoshree Prokolpo housing scheme. The state govt. has allocated Rs. 3000 crore for construction of residential units.
WB Nijashree scheme is applicable only for people whose monthly income does not exceed Rs. 30,000 per month. Initially, around 5000 flats would be distributed to LIG / MIG people in the next 2 to 3 years under Nijoshree Prokolpo Scheme. Interested candidates can apply online for Nijoshree Prokolpo Housing Scheme between 26 November 2018 to 31 December 2018.
Residents of West Bengal from LIG category can apply online for 1 BHK flat with 378 sq.ft carpet area and priced at Rs. 7.82 lakh & people from MIG category can apply online for 2 BHK flats with 559 sq.ft carpet area priced at Rs. 9.26 lakh.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

WB Nijashree Housing Scheme Online Application Form
Below is the complete procedure to apply online for WB Nijashree Housing Scheme:-

Firstly visit the official website wbhousing.gov.in
At the homepage, click at the “Nijashree” button present on the left side of the page or directly click this link
Next, click at the “Sample Application Format” as shown in the figure below:-
WB Nijoshree Prokolpo Housing Scheme
Afterwards, download Nijashree Scheme Application Form in the PDF format which will appear as shown below:-
WB Nijashree Scheme Online Application Form
Here candidates can fill all the details correctly and must attach the supporting documents.

Applicants can collect and submit the application forms to bank branches for Nijashree between 26 November 2018 to 31 December 2018.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

List of Documents for West Bengal Nijashree Housing Scheme
Candidates must attach the following documents along with the completed application form to avail the Nijashree housing scheme benefits:-

Income Certificate (in original)
Affidavit / Declaration (Original)
Voter Card (copy)
Ration Card (copy)
Aadhaar Card (Copy)
PAN Card (copy)
Recent passport size photograph

Candidates can also submit any other document as proof of address to apply for Nijashree Prokolpo housing scheme in West Bengal.
Nijoshree Prokolpo Flats Location & Brochure Download
The flats under Nijashree housing scheme would be located in the areas of South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas, Hooghly, Nadia, Kolkata & Howda. Applicants must download the complete Nijashree Housing Scheme brochure to get more details about the scheme through the link given below:-
Download Nijashree Housing Scheme Brochure & Booklet
The state govt. is providing new homes at lower rates after the success of Banglar Bari Awas yojana. Nijoshree Prokolpo Awas Yojana aims to provide flats to poor people who does not have monthly income to purchase their own flats. 
Nijashree Awas Yojana – Flats Price & Specifications
The houses which are going to be allotted under the Nijashree Awas Yojana will have the following specifications:-


S.No
Type of Flats
Prices of Flats
Family Monthly Income
Carpet Area of Flats


1.
1 BHK (1 Bedroom, Hall & Kitchen)
Rs. 7.82 lakh
Upto Rs. 15,000 per month (LIG)
378 sq.ft


2.
2 BHK (2 Bedroom, Hall & Kitchen)
Rs. 9.26 lakh
Upto Rs. 30,000 per month (MIG)
559 sq.ft


Candidates can also download the Nijashree Housing Scheme Advertisement and complete the Nijashree application process as mentioned above. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
