
West Bengal government has launched Bina Mulya Samajik Suraksha Yojana 2020 in the recent budget speech. Around 7.5 crore people in WB state will reap the benefits of this new free social security scheme. All the landless labourers would be included as beneficiaries of BMSS. All the unorganized sector beneficiaries will get benefits of samajik suraksha on attaining the age of 60 years under WB Free Social Security Scheme.
The Finance department has allotted Rs. 500 crore in the FY 2020-21 for smooth running of West Bengal Bina Mulya Samajik Suraksha Yojana 2020. Now all the beneficiaries are not required to pay any premium for this scheme.
Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee also highlighted some of the new schemes like Hasir Alo, Bandhu Prakalpa, Jai Johar and Chai Sundari schemes.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

WB Bina Mulya Samajik Suraksha Yojana
The West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee requested Finance Minister to include landless labourers as beneficiaries under Bina Mulya Samajik Suraksha Yojana (BMSS). Till date, there are 1.18 crore families which are enrolled under the Samajik Suraksha Yojana (SSY). The number will soon go upto 1.5 crore. In case there are 5 members in every family, the total number of beneficiaries would go upto 7.5 crore. All the poor people belonging to various unorganized sectors would be able to get Provident Fund (PF) and other benefits on attaining the age of 60 years.
Poor people will have to pay single penny from their pockets. Previously, people needs to pay Rs. 25 per month while govt. used to contribute Rs. 30 for each beneficiary. The govt. has announced that there is no longer need to pay premium as govt. will bear entire cost. In case of death of beneficiaries, the family members would receive Rs. 2 lakh. In case someone gets disabled, each beneficiary will receive Rs. 1 lakh.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

CM has requested Finance and Labour dept. to make premium completely free as poor people belonging to unorganized sectors were facing difficulty in paying Rs. 25 per month. The CM also urges Finance Minister to bring landless labourers under Bina Mulya Samajik Suraksha Yojana.
WB Jai Johar, Bandhu Prakalpa, Hasir Alo & Chai Sundari Schemes
Various other schemes were also launched in West Bengal Budget 2020-2021:-
Hasir Alo – In this scheme, around 35 lakh people would be able to avail free electricity in their house if the consumption is upto 75 units on quarterly basis. In case, the poor family uses an electrical lamp and fan prudently, then consumption will not exceed 75 units on quarterly basis. Rs. 200 crore has already been allocated for Hasir Alo Scheme.Chaa Sundari – This scheme will provide housing facilities to tea garden workers. Rs. 500 crore has been allocated for Chaa Sundari Scheme.Bandhu Prakalpa Scheme – SC category people who are not receiving any pension from any agency will get Rs. 1,000 per month as pension. This pension would be given on attaining the age of 60 years.Jai Johar Scheme – ST category people who does not receive any pension from any agency will now get Rs. 1,000 per month as pension. The pension amount would be given on attaining the age of 60 years.
The West Bengal govt. has also increased gratuity from Rs. 6 lakh to 123 lakh and home allowance from Rs. 6,000 to Rs. 12,000.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: http://www.millenniumpost.in/kolkata/75-crore-people-will-reap-benefits-of-bina-mulya-samajik-suraksha-400703
SAVE AS PDF
