
पश्चिम बंगाल सरकार ने लांच की बांग्ला शहश्या बीमा योजना 2019, अब किसी भी किसान लाभार्थी की फसल ख़राब होने पर किसानों को मिलेगा फसल बीमा स्कीम का लाभ, प्रीमियम भी नहीं देना होगाWest Bengal government has announced to launch a new Bangla Shashya Bima Yojana for farmers. WB state govt. will provide crop insurance to farmers for the Kharif 2019 season under this Bangla Sashya Bima (BSB) Scheme. In the 1st phase, the scheme would remain applicable in 15 districts and the number of districts to be increased in the next (2nd) phase.
Bangla Shashya Bima Scheme 2019 is to be launched in collaboration with the Agriculture Insurance Company (AIC) of India. Farmers will not have to pay any premium amount to avail the bangla sasya bima scheme benefits. On behalf of the farmers, the state govt. will bear the bangla shasya bima crop insurance premium. 
All the Bangla Sashya Bima Scheme beneficiaries would be paid insurance in 4 stages and the amount would be calculated per hectare.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

WB Bangla Shashya Bima Scheme 2019 (Crop Insurance)
Here are the important features and highlights of Bangla Sasya Bima (BSB) Scheme:-

Type of Scheme – Bangla Sashya Bima Scheme is a crop insurance scheme for farmers.
Company to Provide Insurance – Agriculture Insurance Company of India.
Districts Covered – Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Purba Bardhaman, Paschim Bardhaman, Purba Medinipur, Malda, Hooghly, Nadia, Murshidabad, Cooch Behar, Birbhum, Purulia, Dakshin Dinajpur, North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas.
Premium Amount – Free of cost for farmers as WB state govt. will pay full premium
Crops Covered for Insurance – BSB scheme in West Bengal to cover aman paddy, aus paddy, jute and maize.
Eligible Beneficiaries – All farmers taking loans (granted / applied for) and even those not taking loans can avail Bangla Shasya Bima Scheme insurance benefits.
Stages for Payment of Insurance – Under West Bengal Bangla Shashya Bima Yojana, the insurance would be paid in 4 stages as mentioned below:-

For any losses suffered during planting
Losses suffered during cultivation
The losses occurred during the period post-cutting when crops are lying in the field
Losses caused due to adverse weather situations.


Amount Calculation – The state govt. of West Bengal will decide the amount of insurance which would be calculated on per hectare basis.

This BSB crop insurance scheme will enable farmers to cover up their losses in case their crops gets damaged due to any reason. The state govt. wants to raise the annual income of the farmers and to enable them to lead a life of dignity and honour.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Farmers plays a very important role in the GDP of the state as well of the entire country. So, the state govt. is focusing on raising their living standards which will ensure higher GDP in the coming years.
Furthermore, West Bengal govt. wants to reduce the suicide rate of farmers which occurs when farmers suffers from losses in agriculture. West Bengal Bangla Shashya Scheme will also prevent farmers from falling into debt trap.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/economy/agriculture/west-bengal-launches-free-crop-insurance-scheme-for-farmers/articleshow/69985239.cms
SAVE AS PDF
