
West Bengal govt. has launched Swapner Bhor Scheme to provide employment linked training to Kanyashree Prakalpa beneficiaries. Under this scheme, all the K2-level Kanyashree beneficiaries who have crossed the age of 18 years would be given technical training. The state govt. flagship Kanyashree Prakalpa Scheme is now being extended to provide job opportunities to the women.
CM Mamata Banerjee has given the name to Kanyashree Prakalpa and this scheme too to provide job-oriented training to women employable. According to the State Women & Social Welfare Minister, the state govt. will implement this WB Swapner Bhor Scheme too.
The state govt. will provide training to women beneficiaries in collaboration with Technical Education, Training & Skill Development (TET&SD) department.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

WB Swapner Bhor Scheme – Training to Kanyashree Prakalpa Beneficiaries
Now all the girls are proposed to get technical training along-with their studies. This would resolve the problem of getting suitable jobs as per their talent. The state govt. is planning to provide training to girls in 2 categories – technical and mechanical. Each K2 beneficiary can apply online for any one branch, through the official website of Kanyashree Prakalpa. All the K2-level Kanyashree beneficiaries are entitled to get Rs. 25,000 but subject to fulfillment of 2 clauses:-

Firstly girls should remain unmarried till the age of 18 years.
Secondly girls must continue their studies.

After acceptance of the application forms, each applicant would be provided counselling with regard to course contents, benefits and types of job opportunities available. Every course content would be given 300 hours of training. Each trainee would be given a daily stipend of Rs. 50 for WB Swapner Bhor Scheme. Till date, there are around 16 lakh K2 beneficiaries. All the beneficiaries residing in various districts as well as in Kolkata will be provided the training.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

West Bengal Kanyashree Prakalpa Scheme – Background
Kanyashree Prakalpa aims to improve the status and well-being of girls belonging to socio-economically disadvantaged families through Conditional Cash Transfers by:-

To provide incentives to girls to continue their education for a longer period of time. This would enable girls to complete secondary or higher secondary education or equivalent.
To disincentivize marriage till the age of 18 years (legal age of marriage of girls). This will reduce the risks of early pregnancies, risks of maternal and child mortality and to reduce malnutrition.
For financial inclusion and empowerment of adolescent girls. Govt. will transfer the benefits directly into the bank accounts of girls.
Behaviour change communication strategy is adopted to create awareness about the Kanyashree Scheme, promotes adolescent friendly events, competitions and Kanyashree clubs.

This scheme will allow girls to remain in schools and to gain skills and knowledge to make them economically independent.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
