
Governor’s administration in Jammu and Kashmir has rolled out Group Mediclaim Health Insurance Scheme for employees, pensioners and accredited journalists in the state. Under this scheme, the state govt. will provide health insurance coverage of Rs. 6 lakh per employee or pensioner per annum. Even the 5 dependent family members of the beneficiaries are also included for insurance coverage on floater basis. 
J&K Group Mediclaim Health Insurance Scheme is compulsory for all government employees including employees of PSUs, autonomous bodies and universities. However, this scheme is optional for pensioners, AIS officers, contractual employees, daily wage workers, contingent paid workers and accredited journalists.
The state administration wants to improve the overall health insurance coverage in the state to realize its vision of “Health For All”.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

J&K Group Mediclaim Health Insurance Scheme
The important features and highlights of J&K group mediclaim health insurance scheme are as follows:-

This scheme will provide Rs. 6 lakh p.a insurance coverage per employee or pensioner. Along with the enrolled employee, pensioner or journalists, their 5 dependent family members will also be included in the scheme on a floater basis.
Group Mediclaim policy will come into effect from 1 October 2018 for a period of 1 year. This scheme can be extended annually for the next 3 years on the basis of satisfactory performance of the insurer.
This policy has been tied up with Reliance General Insurance company. Employees will have to pay an annual premium of Rs. 8,777 and pensioners will have to pay an annual premium of Rs. 22,229.
Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board, Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University, Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board and the accredited journalists of the state shall be also covered under J&K group insurance scheme.

The annual premium would be deducted in four quarterly installments of Rs. 1,295 each. These installments would be deducted on 1 October, 15 January, 15 April and the last installment on 1 July.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

As per the official reports, it is important to note here that the insurance company will also create a corporate buffer of Rs. 10 crore as a part of this mediclaim policy. This buffer will help in meeting the expenditure incurred on the identified illness over and above the insurance coverage amount of Rs six lakh.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
