
Power for All– Jammu and Kashmir govt. has launched Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana (Saubhagya Scheme) across the state. Subsequently, this scheme will provide free electricity connections to all the poor citizens of the state. Central govt. has already launched this scheme in the country to provide electricity to around 4 crore rural households across the country till December 2018. Accordingly, Jammu & Kashmir state govt. decides to launch this scheme to provide electricity connections.
The state govt. will provide these electricity connections at just Rs 500 which are to be paid in 10 installments in bill. This scheme is basically to empower poor and economically weaker sections of the society. Henceforth, all the rural households whose names appears in the SECC-2011 data can avail these connections.
Details of J&K Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana
The highlights and important features of this scheme are as follows:-



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Deputy CM of Jammu and Kashmir has launched this scheme.
Subsequently, the state govt. will provide electricity to the poor people as identified in the Socio Economic and Caste Census data of 2011.
Accordingly, govt. will provide connections at Rs 500 which poor people can pay in 10 installments in their upcoming bills.
Henceforth to avail the benefits of this scheme, applicants will have to make on the spot registration. For this reason, applicants will have to furnish an identity proof.
This Saubhagya initiative of the Modi’s Central govt is for the empowerment of the unprivileged sections of the society.
Subsequently, the state govt. will take every possible measures to ensure that the beneficiaries are identified and are receiving the benefits in a transparent manner.
Furthermore, govt. will constitute several teams in consultation with the electric line departments. This is to ensure that the genuine and deserving ones will receive the electricity connections.

Jammu and Kashmir state govt. is taking every possible measure to strengthen the power sector. The state govt. will adopt several other mechanisms to improve the electric infrastructure in the state. Furthermore, J&K gov. will emphasize on increasing the power generation and transmission capacity of the state to realize the dream of “Power for All”.
References
— To know more details about the Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Har ghar Bijli Yojana, please see the Saubhagya Web Portal using the link given below:-
Saubhagya Dashboard 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});






(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
