
Jharkhand cabinet has approved to merge Mukhyamantri Swasthya Bima Yojana (MSBY) & Ayushman Bharat Yojana. Now a new Hybrid Scheme made of the combination of Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Abhiyan and MSBY will be rolled out in Jharkhand. Under this hybrid scheme (PMRSSM + MSBY), health insurance benefit of Rs. 5 lakh will be provided to beneficiaries by the govt. Health Insurance providers (upto Rs. 1 Lakh) and implementation support agency (upto Rs. 5 lakhs). 
Latest Update – Check Ayushman Bharat Hospital List Jharkhand to find empanelled hospitals in the state or any district.
Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Swastha Suraksha Mission (PMRSSM) is a flagship scheme of the the Modi govt. which aims to provide health insurance coverage to poor people. Each person whose name appears in SECC-2011 Data can avail health insurance benefits upto Rs. 5 lakh under this Ayushman Bharat – National Health Protection Mission (AB-NHPM). 
This decision is taken in the cabinet meeting presided over by CM Raghubar Das on 24 August 2018.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Jharkhand Ayushman Bharat Yojana & MSBY Merging – Hybrid Model
Now the state govt. has decided to merge Mukyamantri Swasthya Bima Yojana (MSBY) with Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Abhiyan. A new Hybrid Model will be created as decided in the cabinet meeting of the state to link it with the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Mission (PMRSSM). The important features and highlights of this new Hybrid Model Scheme are as follows:-

Under this new Hybrid Scheme, the health insurance cover of upto Rs. 1 Lakh will be provided the govt. health insurance providers.
The remaining amount of above Rs. 1 lakh and upto Rs. 5 lakh will be provided by the help of Implementation Support Agencies in trust mode.
Jharkhand Health Insurance MSBY PMRSSM Merged
After the merging of National Health Protection Scheme / Ayushman Bharat Yojana with MSBY, the scheme will be implemented by the Jharkhand State Aarogya Society (JSAS). JSAS falls under the Health and Family Welfare Department or its successor.
Govt. wants to ensure that every Ayushman Bharat beneficiaries can avail cashless & paperless treatment upto 5 lakh in any govt. / private empanelled hospitals.
This amount will be applicable for secondary and tertiary hospitalization and all the pre-existing diseases will be covered from Day 1.
PM Jan Arogya Abhiyan MSBY Merged Jharkhand

Various other important decisions were also taken in the cabinet meeting held on 24 August 2018. Jharkhand Innovation Lab is renamed to Atal Innovation lab. Under Dept. of Higher Education, Professional College Jamshedpur is renamed to Atal Bihar Professional College. Under Dept. of health and Family Welfare, the name of Medical College, Palamu has been renamed to Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College. 
Name of Sahibganj Seaport has been renamed to Atal Bihar Vajpayee Seaport. Govt. will also setup a Atal Bihari Vajpayee Smriti Park in Ranchi. All these decisions of changing the names to former PM of India, Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee are a tribute to his commendable performance for the development of India. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
