
Jharkhand govt. has approved the Paddy Procurement Scheme (धान अधिप्राप्ति योजना) for farmers on 27 November 2018. This scheme aims to purchase dhaan from farmers at Rs. 1750 per quintal which is also the minimum support price (MSP) fixed by the central government. This decision was taken in the cabinet meeting presided over by CM Raghubar Das. 
The state govt. is also considering to continue bonus to farmers for the current financial year. The procurement under Dhaan Adhiprapti Yojana will start from 1st December 2018 to 31 March 2019. To procure paddy, certain changes have been made in the Food Corporation of India (FCI) model. 
At each paddy procurement center, one government officer, one PACS officer and one operator cum account would remain present to provide procurement information to the government.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Jharkhand Paddy Procurement Scheme to Purchase Paddy from Farmers
The state govt. of Jharkhand has fixed a target to procure 4 lakh metric tonne of paddy from farmers. The Paddy Procurement Scheme (Dhaan Adhiprapti Yojana) will start from 1 December 2018 and will end on 31 March 2019. Till date, there are 239 paddy procurement centers in the state and the numbers of these centers can be increased by the concerned department if needed. 
Farmers will get Rs. 1750 for one quintal of paddy as per the MSP fixed by the Modi government. The payment of paddy will go directly into the bank accounts of the farmers through NEFT / RTGS or DBT modes. Bonus is being under consideration and the concerned department is going to submit the report on expenses incurred for bonus. After consideration of this report, the final decision on bonus would be taken.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

All the farmers would get information regarding selling of their paddy through SMS or mobile phones. Farmers can then contact the paddy procurement centers to get the token and date to sell their dhaan. Moreover, all those farmers who have not obtained token will again get SMS on their mobile phones to sell their crops in a sequence wise manner. Under Santhal Pargana division, the state govt. will procure paddy through decentralized system in districts Godda, Deoghar, Dumka, Jamtara, Sahibganj and Pakur. 

एक दिसंबर से न्यूनतम समर्थन मूल्य पर राज्य सरकार 239 केंद्रों पर धान खरीदेगी। अन्नदाता किसानों को प्रति क्विंटल 1750 रुपये समर्थन मूल्य का भुगतान किया जाएगा। #AgriSummit2018 pic.twitter.com/ByBpqQE9XP
— Raghubar Das (@dasraghubar) November 28, 2018

In Palamu division (Palamu, Garhwa, Latehar), the state govt. has choosen the FCI as the nodal agency for procurement. In North Chotanagpur division (Chatra, Hazaribagh, Koderma, Giridih, Ramgarh, Bokaro, Dhanbad), South Chotanagpur division (Lohardaga, Gumla, Simdega, Ranchi, Khunti), Kolhan division (West Singhbhum, Saraikela Kharsawan, East Singhbhum) and Santhal Pargana division (Godda, Deoghar, Dumka, Jamtara, Sahibganj and Pakur), procurement would be done through Jharkhand State Food and Civil Supplies Corporation Ltd.
The state govt. has allocated a fund of Rs. 200 crore for paddy procurement (dhaan adhiprapti) which was previously reserved for sugar procurement. All the farmers will get prices of their paddy within 15 days after selling their crops at the procurement centers.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
