
Jharkhand govt. has launched Mukhyamantri Annapurna Yojana to provide meals to poor people. Under this CM Annapoorna Yojana, the state govt. will provide fresh and full tummy meals to hungry people in just Rs. 10. In first phase, govt. will start this pilot project in Ranchi, Dumka, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad, Bokaro and Palamu. 
The state govt. has given various gifts to the labourers and safai karamcharis (cleaners) on the occasion of PM Narendra Modi’s Birthday. Govt. will provide 3 to 5 days training to cleaners to bring them into category of skilled labourers. Now all such cleaner workers will would get Rs. 7053 assistance p.m instead of Rs. 6612 p.m. 
All the workers in cleaning occupation will get bicycles and their children in 9th to 12th class will get scholarship for studies. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Jharkhand Mukhyamantri Annapurna Yojana
The state govt. will provide meals to poor hungry people in just Rs. 10 under Mukhyamantri Annapoorna Yojana. This will reduce Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) and will ensure proper nutrition to all especially to women and children. CM Raghubar Das has announced various other measures for the welfare of labourers and safai karmis. 
Now, in case of deaths due to accident, labourers and cleaners would be able to get Rs. 4 lakh assistance from the government. For this all workers and labourers will have to pay premium of Rs. 100 per annum. Any women or men labourers can avail assistance of Rs. 30,000 on the marriage of upto 2 children.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Labourers in the unorganized sector will be given skill training. Safai Karamcharis will be put in the category of construction workers. Now these cleaners can make registration in just Rs. 10 and get included in the Labour Welfare Scheme. 

सफाईकर्मी बहनों को साइकिल और उनके बच्चों को 9-12वीं तक की पढ़ाई के लिए छात्रवृत्ति मिलेगी। मुख्यमंत्री अन्नपूर्णा योजना की शुरुआत की जा रही है। इसमें गरीबों को 10 रुपये में शुद्ध और पेटभर भोजन मिलेगा। पहले चरण में ये योजना रांची,दुमका,जमशेदपुर,धनबाद, बोकारो व पलामू से शुरू होगी। pic.twitter.com/VCGuYqVutS
— Raghubar Das (@dasraghubar) September 17, 2018


झारखण्ड के शहरी, स्थानीय निकायों,अस्पतालों से जुड़े सफाईकर्मियों का पद और पैसा दोनों बढ़ाया जायेगा। पायलट प्रोजेक्ट के तहत रांची, दुमका, धनबाद, बोकारो,जमशेदपुर और पलामू में मुख्यमंत्री अन्नपूर्णा योजना के तहत उन्हें 10 रुपये में उत्तम क्वालिटी का भोजन भी दिया जाएगा। #NewJharkhand pic.twitter.com/KNHkTFDBwj
— Raghubar Das (@dasraghubar) September 19, 2018

Jharkhand govt. is working hard for the welfare, development and pride of workers. The state govt. is providing social and economic justice to all safai karamcharis (cleaners), labourers, poor, SC, ST and people from Other Backward Classes. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
