
Jharkhand govt. has launched Chief Minister Fellowship Yojana (CMFY) for Students. Subsequently, all the students can now make online applications for scholarships, grants and honorarium. Accordingly, CM Fellowship Yojana will enable the talented students to complete their studies through easy access to scholarships and grants. Interested candidates can apply online through the official website jhcmfellowship.nic.in
Now students will not have to make unnecessary visits to several departments. This online system will resolve the problem of the candidates who are unable to pursue their studies due to lack of funds. Moreover, govt. is taking efficient steps to raise the standards of higher education and also to promote research.
Furthermore, govt. is also taking steps to provide grants on scholarships. All the candidates who are not paying IT returns can make online registration for CM Fellowship Yojana through the official website from 25 January 2018.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Chief Minister Fellowship Yojana Online Registration Procedure
Below is the complete procedure to make online registration:-

Firstly visit the official website jhcmfellowship.nic.in
Subsequently on the homepage, click the “Registration for Student” link in the main menu.
Afterwards, a Student Registration Form will appear as shown below:-
Jharkhand Chief Minister Fellowship Yojana Students Registration Form
Here candidates have to enter the necessary details and click the “Sign Up” button to complete the registration process.
Subsequently, candidates can make “Login” using the ‘User ID’ and ‘Password’.
Accordingly, candidates have to select the “On Board Scheme Name” for which he is applying i.e UG level Scholarship or Research Fellowship and click the “Go to Instruction” section.
Henceforth, candidates will get directed to the “CM Scholarship Portal” where they can read the Instructions and click the “Accept” button.
The sample of “Under Graduate Scholarship Scheme Application Form” is shown below:-
Jharkhand Chief Minister Fellowship Yojana Students Application Form
Finally, candidates can fill the Application Form and make final submission of completed application form.

Similarly, students can apply for the Research Fellowship by selecting the “Research Fellowship Scheme” in the ‘On board Scheme Name’ and then fill and submit the completed Application Form. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Jharkhand CM Fellowship Yojna
In order to encourage Higher Education in Jharkhand, the state govt. has launched online Chief Minister Fellowship Portal. Accordingly, Department of Higher and Technical Education will provide fellowship under 3 sections:-

Graduation level – All the candidates pursuing graduation / technical education in 163 best institutions which includes – 23 IIT, 19 IIM, 29 NIT, 17 Law Universities.
Ph.D Level – All candidates who have completed their PG Course and are pursuing Ph.D will get Rs. 15000 per month for the upcoming 3 years for research purpose.
Research Work – If the research subject is accepted by top 100 universities than students will get Rs. 1 lakh.

However, only the students who are not paying IT returns can apply for Chief Minister Fellowship Yojana.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
