


Table of Contents

PMAY Ranchi Application Form DownloadPMAY Ranchi Flat DetailsEligibility Criteria
Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) is inviting applications for demand survey for Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana – Urban. The application forms for Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana demand survey in Ranchi can be downloaded from the official website of Ranchi Municipal Corporation at ranchimunicipal.com.
RMC has launched a demand survey for the PMAY and inviting applications from interested eligible candidates. The state government of Jharkhand will provide affordable houses to urban poor beneficiaries of the scheme under PMAY.
PMAY Ranchi Application Form Download
The application form for demand survey of PMAY in Ranchi can be downloaded in PDF format from the official website of Ranchi Municipal Corporation from the following link.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

PMAY Ranchi Application Form
After downloading the application form, you can submit the filled form at the nearest RMC office. The last date to submit the application form is 30th April 2017.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The applicants who wish to apply online for PMAY can do so through the official website pmaymis.gov.in of PM Awas Yojana. The candidates who have already applied for the scheme through pmaymis.gov.in need not to apply again.
PMAY Ranchi Flat Details
Flats under PMAY in Ranchi would be constructed in Edalhatu in Bundu, Ranchi, HEC and Valmiki Nagar. RMC has selected about 150 slums which will be covered under the first phase of PMAY. 300 and 700 square foot homes would be constructed under the scheme in Ranchi.
Eligibility Criteria
Following candidates are eligible to apply for PMAY demand survey in Ranchi.
– People living in Ranchi from at least 2015.
– People having a valid residential proof of Ranchi such as rental slips or any other govt. authorized residence proof.
– Annual income as below
– For type 1 flats – Not more than 3 Lakh
– For type 2 flats – Between 3 to 6 Lakh
More details about the PMAY scheme in Ranchi can be found on the official website of RMC at ranchimunicipal.com.
NOTE/DISCLAIMER: We do not take guarantee of accuracy of information in above content, the info above has been sourced from www.futureplansnews.com/pmay-pm-awas-yojana-ranchi-application-form/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
