


Table of Contents

Jharkhand Mukhyamantri Kanyadan Yojna Form PDF DownloadJharkhand Mukhyamantri Kanyadan Yojana Eligibility CriteriaList of Documents Required For Jharkhand Mukhyamantri Kanyadan Yojna 2018
Jharkhand government is inviting application forms for Mukyamantri Kanyadan Yojana to provide assistance for marriage of their daughter. Interested and eligible people from poor families who wants to avail financial assistance of Rs. 30,000 can download Mukhyamantri Kanyadan Yojna application form in PDF format. This kanya vivah sahayata scheme has been specifically designed in order to reduce the financial burden on the poor father in case of their daughter’s marriage. 
Under Mukhyamantri Kanyadan Yojna, the state govt. will support poor people in their daughter’s marriage who cannot afford the cost of marriage. Jharkhand govt. is going to provide assistance of Rs. 30,000 to each girl beneficiaries so that the condition of the girls in the state gets improved. This assistance is given as a help and beneficiaries does not need to repay this amount to the state government.
All the needy and eligible people of the state can download Mukhyamantri Kanyadan yojana form Jharkhand and apply for this scheme.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Jharkhand Mukhyamantri Kanyadan Yojna Form PDF Download
All the people who fulfills the eligibility criteria can download the Mukhyamantri Kanyadan Yojna form PDF. Here we are providing you the link to download the application form and the complete application process:-

All the applicants can download the application form through the link – Mukhyamantri Kanyadan Yojana Jharkhand Form Download
The Mukhyamantri Kanyadan Yojna application form will appear as follows:-
Mukhyamantri Kanyadan Yojna Form PDF
All the applicants can download and fill the Mukhyamantri Kanyadan Yojna application form.
Candidates can submit the duly filled application form along with the required documents at the Department of social and women’s welfare, the government of Jharkhand.

It is important to note that all the poor families must apply for assistance within one month of marriage.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Jharkhand Mukhyamantri Kanyadan Yojana Eligibility Criteria
All the candidates must fulfill the eligibility criteria for Mukhyamantri Kanyadan Yojana:-

Applicant must be a permanent resident of the Jharkhand state.
The annual income of the family of the applicant from all sources must not exceed Rs. 72000.
The bride and bridegroom must be of minimum legal age of the marriage. The age of the girl must be above 18 years and the age of boy must be more than 21 years.
All the applicants must belong to the Below Poverty Line (BPL) category.
No member of the family of the applicant must be employed in any state or central govt. services.
The financial assistance is not applicable in the case of Re-marriage (पुर्नविवाह). However, widows can avail the scheme benefits in case of Re-marriage.

Orphan girls who does not belong to BPL category are also eligible and can avail assistance under Mukhyamantri Kanyadan Yojana.
List of Documents Required For Jharkhand Mukhyamantri Kanyadan Yojna 2018
All the candidates must submit the following documents along with the completed application form to get assistance under this scheme. The list of documents required for Jharkhand Mukhyamantri Kanyadan Yojna 2018 are as follows:-

Recent passport size photograph
Copy of Bank passbook
Income certificate
Identity proof
Resident proof
Aadhaar card
There are some other documents which are required to avail benefits of Mukhyamantri Kanyadan Yojana scheme. For the details of these documents, please contact the concerned authority or department.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
