
Cabinet Committee, Jharkhand govt. has approved Jharkhand Divyang Jan Adhikar Niyamavali – 2018. This decision will specify the rights and rules of the disabled people. Thus the primary objective is to make the state a friendly place to live for the Persons With Disabilities (PWDs). Now each PWD will get equal opportunity in jobs, certification and also safeguard them from atrocities.
All the physically challenged people can utilize the mandated regulations to get hindrance free environment for their development. Moreover, such people can also seek govt. support to ensure their survival and well-being.
In addition, govt. will set up a state level commission to resolve the queries and complaints of the disabled people. The entire idea behind these rights and rules is to provide unrestricted accessibility to divyang jan at each and every level in society.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Jharkhand Divyang Jan Adhikar Niyamavali – 2018
The important features of Divyang Jan Rights Rules 2018 are as follows:-

Under this new scheme, all the persons with disabilities will get equal opportunities both in government and private jobs. Accordingly to achieve this target, each office establishment shall maintain the records of the divyang employees. Moreover, every department must show the number of appointments and vacancies existing for disabled. 
Jharkhand govt. is also going to set up a state level commission to resolve the complaints filed by the PWDs. State disability commissioner can take strict action on those who are found guilty of discrimination to these disabled persons.
The state govt. will also revise the stipends for such people. Even a new special committee is to be formed to identify and locate disabled persons across the entire state.
National institute of Locomotor Disabilities shall run a composite regional center for disabled people in the state. This CRC will focus on their rehabilitation and also on their special education.

Cabinet committee also allotted a 3 acre plot at Dubalia in Kanke block to Kolkata-based Rashtriya Gatishil Divyang Sangathan to set up CRC.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});






(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
