
झारखण्ड में नए राशन कार्ड हेतु आवेदन पत्र PDF डाउनलोड करें हिंदी में, राशन कार्ड सूची 2019 में अपना नाम शामिल करने के लिए जरुरी कागज़ात और पूरी प्रक्रिया जानेंRation Card Online Apply Jharkhand | Jharkhand Ration Card Form PDF | Ration Card Jharkhand Application Form in Hindi | PDS Jharkhand Ration Card Application Form Download 
Food and Civil Supplies Department of Jharkhand has released the Jharkhand Ration Card List 2019 (District Wise). All the citizens who have made fresh registration for the Ration Card can now check their name in the Eligible List of National Food Security Act (NFSA) / APL beneficiaries. Moreover, candidates whose name does not appears in the Ration Card New List 2019 and wants to apply for name inclusion in new Ration card list (राशन कार्ड सूची) can apply online. Ration Card Jharkhand application form available online at aahar.jharkhand.gov.in. People can also download PDS Jharkhand ration card form PDF in hindi.
Ration Card in Jharkhand is a necessary document for the poor people to take benefits of most government schemes. Accordingly, people can purchase rashan at subsidized rates from Ration Shops located nearby. Jharkhand Ration Card Apply Form PDF is now available for the general citizens of the state.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Jharkhand govt. has made this ration card new list public to make the process of finding name easier. Now candidates can search their name in the APL BPL List. For inclusion of their name in Ration card list (राशन कार्ड सूची), people can also make new ration card form download in hindi Jharkhand pdf as given below.
PDS Ration Card Jharkhand Application Form (Apply Online)
Here is the complete procedure to apply online for Ration Card in Jharkhand:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Firstly visit the official website at aahar.jharkhand.gov.in
At the homepage, scroll over the “ऑनलाइन सेवा” tab and click at the “ऑनलाइन आवेदन” link or directly click this link to open the page as shown below:-
Jharkhand Ration Card Form in Hindi
Now candidates can click at the “Proceed” tab and in the next window select the “नया राशनकार्ड के लिए आवेदन” and then click at “Submit” button. Then again click at the “Proceed” button and enter the mobile number to open the Ration Card Jharkhand Application Form in Hindi.
Ration Card Jharkhand Application Form in Hindi
Here candidates can enter the address details, personal details and bank account details to apply online for new ration card in Jharkhand.

All the candidates can go to the link – Application Form Ration Card Jharkhand to fill the application form of rashan card and apply online. 
Jharkhand Ration Card Form PDF Download in Hindi
Below are the links to download PDS Jharkhand Ration Card Form PDF in Hindi:-

PDS Jharkhand Ration Card Form Download (Rural)
Jharkhand Ration Card Form PDF Rural
Ration Card Jharkhand Application Form Download (Urban)
Ration Card Jharkhand Application Form PDF Urban

Candidates can also make Jharkhand Ration Card Beneficiary Search to find details in the ration card list of beneficiaries. 
All the candidates can also download GIS Mobile App intended for the use of SECC cardholders and can make ration card form download PDF Jharkhand.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: aahar.jharkhand.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
