
Jharkhand govt. has decided to launch a new Free Mobile Phone Scheme to provide smartphones to 28 lakh farmers as Diwali gift. This scheme will enable farmers to get connected to the e-NAM portal and directly sell their produce. This free smartphone scheme in Jharkhand will realize the PM’s vision of Digital India.
CM said that the farmers must accept invitation of the state govt. and must become the brand ambassador of Agriculture and Food Summit going to organized on 29 & 30th November 2018. The primary objective of this summit is the overall development of farmers and as a whole of the agricultural sector.
These smartphones will enable transfer of technology within the farmers and the state govt. will implement this free mobile phone scheme in Jharkhand following the lines of other state’s free smartphone scheme.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Jharkhand Free Smartphone Scheme for 28 Lakh Farmers
The state govt. of Jharkhand will launch a Free Smartphone Scheme to provide free mobile phones to around 28 lakh farmers. The announcement of this Free mobile Scheme in Jharkhand will take place in the next budget i.e 2019-20. Farmers will be able to connect to e-NAM which is an online trading platform for agriculture commodities in India. 
e-NAM market facilitates farmers, traders and buyers with online trading in commodities. This market is also helpful in better price discovery and provide facilities for smooth marketing of their produce. The state govt. has recently sent several farmers to Israel so as to enable them to learn to maximize their farming activities with limited resources. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Agriculture sector is the largest contributor to the economy and the gross domestic product (GDP) of the country. This sector involves more than 50% of the total population in India and generates direct and indirect employment which is essential for the growth of the economy.

आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodiजी के डिजिटल इंडिया के सपने को पूरा करने के लिए झारखंड को भी डिजिटल होना होगा इसलिए हम अपने 28 लाख किसान भाइयों को मुफ्त मोबाइल देंगे। मोबाइल के जरिए सभी किसान ई-नाम से जुड़ेंगे और सीधे अपना उत्पाद बेच सकेंगे। #NewJharkhand pic.twitter.com/eO7J8jeYJd
— Raghubar Das (@dasraghubar) November 4, 2018

So, it is the responsibility of the state govt. to ensure hi-tech facilities to farmers, make them learn about modern practises to improve the quality and quantity of the forest produce.
Jharkhand Free Smartphone Yojana Farmers
So, providing free smartphones to the farmers is a major step towards the overall development of farmers and the entire agriculture sector. This scheme will realize the vision of “Doubling Farmers income by 2022”.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
