


Table of Contents

Odisha Free Laptop Distribution Scheme 2018-19 (Biju Yuva Sashaktikaran Yojana)Odisha Free Laptop Scheme Beneficiary List 2018-19Who can Receive Laptops under Biju Yuva Sashaktikaran Yojana 2018-19References
Odisha govt. is going to distribute free laptops to the meritorious students of Plus Two in the state. All the students who have attained merit in various streams in the +2 examinations are eligible for Free Laptop Distribution Scheme 2018-19. List of Beneficiaries will be released in the month of July. A total number of 15000 students of class 12th (XII) will get these free laptops under Biju Yuva Sashaktikaran Yojana. 
For Free Laptop Scheme, govt. has selected 30 nodal centers to provide laptops to the meritorious students. A candidate whose name appears in the Free Laptop Distribution Scheme Beneficiary List 2018-19 can receive laptops from their concerned principal till 31 December 2018.
Even the students whose name appears in the Odisha Laptop Distribution Supplementary List 2018-19 can also receive laptops from their principals between 31 December 2018 to 31 January 2019. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Odisha Free Laptop Distribution Scheme 2018-19 (Biju Yuva Sashaktikaran Yojana)
The important features and highlights of new Free Laptop Scheme in Odisha are as follows:-

Meritorious students passing 12th standard from CHSE, Vocational students passing from CHSE (O) and Upa-shastri students passing from Shree Jagannath Sanskrit University, Puri are eligible.
On the basis of marks scored by students in CHSE exam in various streams and Upshastri exam, a merit list will be prepared. This will be the complete List of Beneficiaries for Free Laptop Distribution Scheme and will comprises of the name of 15000 students.
Govt. will distribute the laptops at 30 Nodal Centres and IT dept. will deliver the laptops to the principals of nodal colleges. Principal can only provide the laptops to only those 15000 students whose name appears in Laptop Beneficiary List 2018-19.
The list will be made public in the month of July 2018. In case their is any query, then candidates can contact their principals. If complaint is genuine, then the principals can add the name of such students in the Free Laptop Scheme Supplementary Beneficiary List 2018-19.
A student can take laptops from their principals anytime before 31 December 2018.
After the last date, a supplementary list will be released to cover all the students whose name appears in the first list but failed to received the laptop. Even the genuine students who have given complaints will also get included in this supplementary list.
Last date to collect laptops from the concerned principal for the Students in Supplementary List is 31 January 2019.

For more details on the Free Laptop Distribution Scheme, see the complete guidelines through the link given here – Biju Yuva Sashaktikaran Yojana 2018-19 Guidelines 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Odisha Free Laptop Scheme Beneficiary List 2018-19
The complete list of beneficiaries will soon be made public by the Higher Education department. As soon as the list becomes available, we will update it here. Other wise, candidates can directly access the beneficiary lis at the official webpage for free laptop scheme in Odisha.
All the candidates can directly access the Free Laptop Scheme List of Beneficiaries 2018-19 through link –
http://dheodisha.gov.in/Higher-Education/laptop-distribution.aspx
Who can Receive Laptops under Biju Yuva Sashaktikaran Yojana 2018-19
The state govt. will provide free laptops to all the students who have secured merit in 10+2 exams and whose name appears in the approved List of Beneficiaries 2018-19. In the revised guidelines, there exists a provision that even relatives of students can also receive these laptops in case of absence during the programme. 
Students must inform the authorities about the reason of their absence and the name of their relatives to whom it is to given. For this reason, they will have to give a letter signed by the chairman of the concerned colleges. It is also compulsory to submit the identity proof / documents of relatives who would receive laptops. Also check the Laptop Abstract & Beneficiary list – http://dheodisha.gov.in/laptop17-18/index.htm 
Higher Education Department has sent a notification to 822 degree and 29 autonomous colleges in the state. A committee headed by District Collector will monitor the distribution of laptops in scheduled duration. An Officer will now be appointed in order to verify the details of the students before giving laptops to them. Next the college authorities will approve the certificates and will also furnish their ID cards / Admit Cards. 
References
— For more details on Laptop Distribution Scheme, visit official website http://dheodisha.gov.in/Higher-Education/index.aspx 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
