


Table of Contents

Odisha Kalia Scholarship Scheme Online Application Form 2019Apply Online at Kalia Scholarship PortalKalia Chhatra Bruti Yojana – Funds Disbursement
Odisha govt. has launched official portal and logo for Kalia Chhatra Bruti Yojana 2019. Now candidates can apply online for Kalia Scholarship Scheme at kalia.co.in Portal. Kalia Scholarship Scheme 2019 online application form are available at the official website. The children of Kalia Yojana beneficiaries are eligible for this scholarship programme. 
Through this Kalia Chhatravritti Yojana, farmers child can pursue higher education in professional and technical courses. Kalia Scholarship Scheme 2019 is the next major step towards transforming the economic standards of farmers through Krushak Assistance for Livelihood and Income Augmentation Scheme. 
The state govt. of Odisha has come up with the Kalia Scholarship Yojana to ensure human resource development among the farming families across the state.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Odisha Kalia Scholarship Scheme Online Application Form 2019
Below is the complete procedure to apply online for Kalia Scholarship Scheme 2019:-

Firstly children of Kalia Yojana beneficiary farmers will have to visit the official website at kalia.co.in
At the homepage, click at the “Kalia Scholarship” tab present on the right side of the page
Then the Kalia Scholarship Online Application Form will appear as follows:-
Kalia Scholarship Scheme Application Form
Here candidates can fill the Kalia Scholarship details, applicant details, parent information, permanent address information and bank information.
Finally, candidates can click at the “Submit” button to complete the online application process for Kalia Chhatra Bruti Yojana.

Kalia Scholarship Scheme or Chhatra Brutti Yojana will ensure that not a single eligible children of Kalia beneficiaries who aspires for technical & professional education be deprived of his / her dream. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Apply Online at Kalia Scholarship Portal
The official portal kalia.co.in/scholarship has now been launched for children of Kalia Yojana beneficiaries. At the Kalia Scholarship Portal, candidates can now apply online for Kalia Chhatra Bruti Yojana. The state govt. of Odisha will bear all the expenditure including course fees, hostel fees and mess fess under Kalia Scholarship Yojana. 
Those students who will get admission into govt. professional colleges on merit basis would be eligible. All the eligible children of Kalia Scheme beneficiaries can avail assistance to study in more than 13 professional / technical subjects. These subjects includes MBBS, BDS, BAMS, BHMS, B.Pharma, BSC Nursing, BVS & AH, B.E, B.Arch and B Plan, BSC Agriculture etc. There are more than 30 govt. institutions in which candidates can apply online at Kalia Scholarship Portal subject to fulfillment of eligibility criteria for admission into these courses.
In addition to this, children of Kalia scheme beneficiaries pursuing technical educations in more than 11 disciplines in technical educational institutions will also remain eligible to avail benefits under Kalia Scholarship Scheme 2019. 
Kalia Chhatra Bruti Yojana – Funds Disbursement
The Kalia Scholarship funds are going to be sent directly to the bank accounts of the eligible students through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode. The funds provided under Kalia Scholarship would include tuition fees, annual college fees, one-time college fees and hostel establishment charges (as per institutions concerned) and mess fees.
Odisha Agriculture dept. has asked the state higher education, health & family welfare, skill development & technical education to urge institutions under them to communicate the students to apply online for Kalia Scholarship. All the students can apply online through the Kalia Portal at http://kalia.co.in/index.html





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
