
Odisha Government is running a new health centric scheme named as “Nirmal Scheme” from 2018-2019. This scheme is provides free ancillary (additional) services to the people in all the state run government hospitals & district headquarters hospitals. The primary focus will be on providing basic facilities like sanitation, security services and to ensure quality health care services affordable for everyone. This scheme will strengthen delivery of proper healthcare services through public health system.
The state govt. has launched this Nirmal Scheme to upgrade standards of supplementary services in healthcare. Govt. will lay special emphasis for promotion of healthy and hygienic hospitals. In addition to this, govt. will also provide basic services like sanitation, laundry, security and lift services at various public health-care facilities. Govt. wants to provide Universal Health Coverage and to ensure Health For All.
In Odisha, around 91% citizens depends on the public sector for health care services. So, the state govt. will also launch other health care schemes including free sanitary napkins to adolescent girls, free diagnostic services, free eye care (Sunetra) and medicines.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Odisha Nirmal Scheme
There are 3 components for this Nirmal Scheme in Odisha which includes Clinic Establishments, Up-gradation and Procurement of Advanced Equipment. First 2 components will get launched in the first phase while the 3rd component will be launched in the next phase.
Phase 1 – In the initial phase, govt. will establish new clinics at the capital hospital and upgrade the clinics it it already exists as follows:-

1st Component – Setting Up of Clinics – Health and Family Welfare Dept. is going to establish clinics at government hospitals for the purpose of fast treatment. The newly set up clinics can be for cancer detection, sterility, family welfare, child rehabilitation, child guidance, child welfare and immunization.
2nd Component – Upgradation of Services – In the hospitals where such facilities already exists, the state govt. will strengthen these services and will upgrade them in order to ensure proper treatment for citizens.

Phase 2 – In the later phase, the state govt. will procure equipment to bring facilities at district headquarters hospitals as follows:-

3rd Component – Procurement of Equipment – Govt. will soon take further stride towards the procurement of advanced equipment. This will ensure world-class infrastructure and facilities at district headquarters hospitals.


Odisha Nirmal Scheme Extended
State Government has decided to extend ‘Nirmal’ Scheme to strengthen ancillary services at public health facilities with an estimated Budget of Rs. 199815.46 Lakh for the period of 5 years covering 1864 health institutions.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Below are the main objectives of the extended Nirmal scheme
To provide better ambiance to the patients and their attendants at public health facilitiesTo minimize hospital acquired infectionsTo improve patients’ satisfaction at all levels.
Read the official press release for updates
The scheme shall also include the Medical Colleges and Hospitals, AYUSH Colleges and Hospitals, Nursing Schools and Colleges up to PHC level.
The state govt. wants to improve health services at all the state-run hospitals and district headquarters hospitals. Odisha CM, Naveen Patnaik announced this scheme on 7 April 2018 on the occasion of World Health Scheme.
For more details of Odisha Nirmal Scheme, visit the official website of NHM Odisha at http://nhmodisha.gov.in





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
