
Odisha government has launched Mukhyamantri Abhinav Krishi Yantrapati Samman Yojana for farmers. Both these schemes will boost the innovative and enterprise skills of farmers in the state. The state govt. has also launched Mukhyamantri Krushi Udyog Yojana. Govt. is making consistent efforts to encourage farmers, enhance the agricultural production and to realize the vision of “Doubling Farmers Income by 2022”.
Mukhyamantri Krushi Udyog Yojana eases the process of setting up of agro industries and provide subsidy. This scheme deals with simplification of loan. Now state govt. has launched apicol.co.in website which will enable easy availability of loans to the farmers. All the farmers can fill online application form and even make payment online.
Both these scheme will ensure additional farmer’s income and will also create new employment opportunities. Educated Youths will also get encouraged to set up new manufacturing units for agriculture, horticulture and food processing sector and can avail subsidy upto Rs. 50 lakh.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Odisha Mukhyamantri Abhinav Krishi Yantrapati Samman Yojana
The state govt. of Odisha has launched 2 new schemes namely Mukhyamantri Abhinaba Krushi Yantrapati Saman Yojana (Chief Minister Honouring of Innovative Farm Tools and Implements) and Mukhya Mantri Krishi Udyog Yojana (CM Agricultural Enterprises Scheme). The important features and highlights of CM Abhinav Krishi Yantrapati Sanman Yojana are as follows:- 

Farmers and Agricultural Development – This scheme will result in betterment and development of both agriculture and agricultural workers / labourers.
Total Number of Beneficiary Farmers – Govt. will provide assistance to all the farmers who invent anything innovative like farm tools and implements. For this reward purpose, govt. will select 101 agricultural workers. 11 farmers will be selected at the state level while 90 other farmers will be selected at district level.
Cash Prize / Reward – 3 Farmers who tops the list will be given a financial assistance of Rs. 2 lakh, Rs. 1.5 lakh and Rs. 1 lakh respectively. All the other selected farmers will get a financial assistance of Rs. 15,000 each under Mukhyamantri Abhinav Krishi Yantrapati Samman Yojana.
District & State Level Awards – There are several enterprising farmers in the villages who are successfully inventing new farm tools and utilizes them in fields. So, the state govt. wants them to come to the public notice. Govt. will select such talented farmers at state and district levels and will provide them financial assistance. Particularly govt. is focusing on implementation of new and innovative methods for agriculture.

All the farmers who invents innovative tools and implements and are honoured (Sanman) can setup their own manufacturing unit or company. This scheme will ensure that all such companies are registered under Startup Odisha Initiative. Mukhyamantri Abhinav Krishi Yantrapati Saman Yojana will enable the farmers to get monthly allowance or product development allowance. The prime focus of this scheme is to help innovators and to provide assistance.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Govt. is also planning to provide all sort of help and even legal assistance to farmers. The state govt. will provide financial assistance of Rs. 20,000 per month to all the registered farmers under Startup Odisha initiative. Moreover, if a farmers wishes to further improvise their innovative tools and implements, then govt. can provide assistance to them upto Rs. 15 lakh. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
