
Odisha govt. has released the red and green application forms for Krushak Assistance for Livelihood and Income Augmentation (KALIA) scheme. All those farmers whose name does not appears in the Kalia Scheme List of Beneficiaries 2019 can download green form online at kalia.co.in. Moreover, red forms are also available online at the official website for downloading purposes. 
These green forms and red forms for are basically for inclusion and exclusion of names of farmers respectively in the Kalia Scheme 2019. The farmers can also get this Kalia scheme green form from gram panchayat office & drop it in green box available at the GP office concerned for inclusion of their name. Similarly, red forms with boxes have been provided for exclusion of names from the list with voluntary declaration or through complaints by others.
Latest Update – Deadline for submission of green / red application forms for enrollment or exclusion in Kalia Scheme extended till 15 January 2019 (previously 10 Jan 2019). Kalia Yojana 2nd phase of applications will start from 25 January 2019 and the last date is 5 February 2019.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Odisha KALIA Scheme Red / Green Form Download 2019
Below is the complete procedure to download red and green forms for Kalia Scheme 2019 for exclusion and inclusion of names of farmers in the 1st draft list:-

Firstly visit the official website for KALIA Scheme 2019-2020 at kalia.co.in
At the homepage, click at the “Form” section in the main menu to download “Red Form” and “Green Form” online.
Direct Link – Kalia Scheme Green Form Download
Afterwards, Odisha Kalia Scheme Green Form 2019 will appear as follows:-
Odisha Kalia Scheme Green Form 2019
Direct Link – Kalia Scheme Red Form Download
Afterwards, Odisha Kalia Scheme Red Form 2019 will appear as follows:-
Odisha Kalia Scheme Red Form 2019
Farmers can download both the green and red forms online through the above mentioned links.

The Odisha Kalia Scheme 2019 list of beneficiaries is available online at the official website kalia.co.in. Moreover, all small and marginal farmers and landless agriculture labourers to visit the panchayat office and verify the Kalia Scheme 2019 gram panchayat wise beneficiary list. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The government employees, retired persons of government wings or PSUs, income tax assessees and farmers with big land holding are not eligible and so cannot fill green form.
Also Read: Odisha Kalia Scheme 2019-2020 Details
Also Read: Odisha Kalia Scheme Beneficiary List 
Check complete details of KALIA Scheme 2019-20 at the official website before filling any of the 2 forms.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
