
Odisha govt. is going to start a new Doubling of Farmers Income Scheme 2020. Directorate of Horticulture has initiated the process for introducing this scheme through convergence of agriculture and allied sectors. The Doubling of Farmer’s Income scheme would be implemented as part of the 5T framework. The state govt. has already drawn a road map to achieve the income target by FY 2022-23.
As per the official sources, Doubling of Farmers Income Scheme will be implemented in 3 phases. In the first phase, govt. will start this scheme in 10 districts representing 10 Agro-Climatic Zones (ACZs). In the second phase and third phase, it will be rolled out in 10 districts each with representation of all ACZs.
Check the complete details of the Odisha govt. roadmap of realizing the objective of doubling farmer’s income in the state.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Odisha Doubling of Farmers Income Scheme 2020 District List 1st Phase
In the first phase, the state govt. of Odisha will implement Doubling of Farmers Income Scheme in the following districts:-

Bhadrak
Bargarh
Dhenkanal
Kandhamal
Koraput
Malkangiri
Mayurbhanj
Nuapada
Puri
Sundargarh

The district-wise targets i.e the total number of farmers with source of funding from different schemes of agriculture and line departments have been finalised. The state govt. will support 5,910 farmers under the Doubling of Farmers Income programme during 2019-20 fiscal. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Odisha Doubling Farmer’s Income 2020
Odisha govt’s new Doubling of Farmers Income Scheme 2020 will ensure convergence and integration of various targets and financial outlays of ongoing schemes and programmes of the Centre and State. This includes various schemes as shown below:-

Matsya Pokhari Yojana (MPY)
Excavation of Farm Ponds under MGNREGA
Rural Backyard Poultry Yojana (RBPY)
Poultry rearing through deep litter system
National Horticulture Mission (NHM)
Various Schemes of NABARD

However, the complete focus of Odisha govt. will be on existing schemes for cash crops including papaya, banana, hybrid vegetables, rice under National Food Security Scheme, maize, nutri-cereals and pulses apart from vermi-compost and apiary.
To ensure accelerated growth in farmers income, there must be active involvement of multi-sectors, multi-stakeholders and multi-departments in agriculture and allied sectors. As a part of the Doubling Farmers Income Scheme, modules on regionally differentiated integrated farming system has been prepared and an operational guideline has been sent to all districts. All deputy directors and assistant directors of horticulture have been instructed to take steps as per the guidelines.
It is important to note that govt. will provide credit linkages and subsidy assistance as per respective scheme guidelines. Kisan credit cards will also be made available for farmers to take up agricultural activities as per the norms of NABARD. Doubling of Farmers Income Scheme will be monitored at 3 levels through the State, district and block-level committees. Independent evaluation of the scheme will be conducted during and post project implementation to further refine the modus of operandi.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://www.newindianexpress.com/states/odisha/2020/jan/12/new-scheme-for-doubling-farmer-income-to-come-under-odisha-governments-5t-framework-2088537.html
SAVE AS PDF
