


Table of Contents

Sahaya Scheme FeaturesNidan Scheme – Free Diagnostic ServicesAma Clinic Yojana – Urban Health Care ServicesAnmol Yojana – Computer Tablets for ANMs
Odisha government launches Sahaya Scheme in order to provide better quality of health care services. Accordingly, all the citizens will get free dialysis services at govt. designated hospitals across the state. Henceforth, all the poor and the needy people belonging to the economically backward sections can take the benefits of this health care scheme. Furthermore, Odisha govt. will start implementing this scheme from 1 January 2018 (New Year).
Odisha govt. will set up several dialysis machines in the public health facilities to ensure free and timely treatment. For this reason, the state govt. will install 127 dialysis machines for this programme at several govt. hospitals and Community health Centers under PPP mode till March 2018. Subsequently, the primary focus is the welfare of all the citizens through proper and high quality health services.
In addition to this, govt. also launches Nidan Scheme (Free Diagnosis Services), Aama Clinic Yojana (urban health facilities) and Anmol Yojana (computer tablets for ANMs). Furthermore, Odisha govt. has made a provision of Rs. 600 crore in its budget for the successful implementation of this health care scheme. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Sahaya Scheme Features
The highlights and details of this health scheme are given as follows:-

Odisha govt. launches this scheme to ensure proper dialysis treatment to the needy people.
Under this scheme, state govt. is going to provide free dialysis services in various govt. hospitals and public community centers.
The main aim is to ensure reduction in the Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) and Maternal Mortality Rate (MMR) across the state.
In order to implement this scheme, state govt. will provide 127 dialysis machines for installation in PPP mode.
Accordingly, these machines will get installed at 25 district headquarters hospitals and 1 at Community Health Center of Narasinghapur in Cuttack district.
Odisha govt will start implementing Sahaya Scheme from 1 January 2018.
Henceforth, govt. is going to spend Rs 600 crore for the duration of 5 years on these health care schemes.
Furthermore, the state govt. will also start the other health schemes on 1 January 2018 – Nidan Scheme, Anmol Yojana and Ama Clinic Yojana.

Nidan Scheme – Free Diagnostic Services
Under this scheme, Odisha govt. will provide free diagnostics services in all the public health facilities. In addition to this, govt. will also provide free of cost facilities of high end pathology tests, digital X-Ray, CT Scan and MRI under PPP mode by March 2018. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Ama Clinic Yojana – Urban Health Care Services
The state govt. will provide high quality services for proper health in urban areas. This yojana will enable the citizens to get fixed-day specialist consultations in obstetrics and gynaecology, paediatrics, medicine, geriatrics, eye care, physiotherapy and psychiatric services. This scheme will benefit around 45 lakh people of the urban areas.
Anmol Yojana – Computer Tablets for ANMs
Govt. also decided to provide Anmol Tablet computers to give Auxiliary Nurse Midwifes (ANMs) access to the latest technology. This will enable ANMs to provide real time services for better helath care services.
Odisha CM has launched these 4 schemes to provide better health services in the state. This scheme will also help in reducing the Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) and Maternal Mortality Rate (MMR).





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
