
CM Naveen Patnaik has laid foundation of a much awaited mega water supply project under Buxi Jagabandhu Assured Water Supply to Habitations (BASUDHA) scheme. Odisha govt. launches mega pipe water scheme to supply potable piped water of 147 water scarce villages of Puri and Ganjam districts. The primary objective of the Basudha scheme is to provide adequate safe water to rural people for drinking and domestic purposes on a sustainable basis. 
Basudha project was launched on 23 November 2018 at a function organized at Salt Ground in Huma town in Ganjam district through video conferencing. The 3rd bridge over Rushikulya river at Ganjam town is being proposed to treat its water and its supply. 
This project will benefit people of 9 panchayats in Ganjam district and a new dry fish haat is soon going to be open at Humma. Basudha Scheme will be implemented at a cost of Rs. 203 crore which includes operation and maintenance. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Odisha Basudha Scheme – Portable Piped Water Supply to All
Under Basidha Scheme, the state govt. is going to provide drinking water to 147 villages which includes 55 in Ganjam block and 92 in Krushnaprasad block. This mega Pipe Water Scheme (PWS) will be implemented by the Panchayati Raj and Drinking Water Department. 
Hyderabad-based GVPR Engineers Limited will executed this project and is expected to benefit water scarce villages of Puri and Ganjam districts. The plant will source water from Rushikulya river with an estimated cost of around Rs. 203 crore.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Just 2 days back, CM has also launched the Basudha helpline number 1916 which is dedicated grievance management initiative for rural water supply in the state. People can make complaints regarding drinking water supply in rural areas at this helpline number before 6 a.m to 6 p.m. All the grievances are going to be addressed in a given time frame.

CM @Naveen_Odisha laid foundation on a mega water supply project under Buxi Jagabandhu Assured Water Supply to Habitations (BASUDHA) scheme. It will supply potable piped water to 147 villages of Puri and Ganjam districts pic.twitter.com/C4eq3O7Z8L
— CMO Odisha (@CMO_Odisha) November 23, 2018

The BASUDHA scheme was firstly launched in the FY 2017-18 as a tribute to Buxi Jagabandhu with an outlay of Rs. 600 crore. The state government is going to provide Rs. 1,000 crore for the scheme in 2018-19. Odisha govt. has build 78 state-of-the-art water testing laboratories across Odisha to ensure that the supplied water meets the necessary quality standards. Over 5 lakh samples are being tested in these laboratories in a particular year.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
