
Odisha govt. has launched Mu Hero Mu Odisha (I am Hero, I am Odisha) Scheme 2018 under Biju Yuva Vahini Programme. This campaign is launched to identify agents of change and recognizing their contribution for the state. At the launch event, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik facilitated several youths who have won awards, both on National and International level and have done inspirational work for the welfare of the society.
The primary objective of Mu Hero Mu Odisha Scheme is to identify young talents who have performed well in various competitions and to give them recognition. This will enable other children across the state to take inspiration from them and contribute to the progress of the state.
Recognition to such achievers will make them real heroes and role models for the rest of youths. They will acknowledge their contribution and start working hard to become a role model like them.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Mu Hero Mu Odisha Scheme under Biju Yuva Vahini Program
CM Naveen Patnaik has launched Mu Hero Mu Odisha Scheme in order to identify young achievers of the state and to provide them recognition. Among those who govt felicitated were Jhilli Dalabehera (Bronze medalist at 2018 IWF Junior World Weightlifting Championship), Jafar Iqbal (Participant of World Cup Cricket Tournament for the blind) and a 6 year old girl, Mamta Dalai (National Bravery Award 2017 Winner).
CM said that “Odisha is a land of brave men. The sons of this soil has always toiled for the pride and self esteem of Odias. There are Gopabandhus, Madhubabus and Bijubabus residing in every town, village and home and these people needs to be identified”. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

CM also said that he is delighted to flag off Mu Hero Mu Odisha Scheme whose main purpose is to identify the potential among the youths and to provide them recognition in the society. Any ordinary person can do extraordinary things and become real hero. Patnaik said that he is delighted to have such inspirational achievers who are the real inspiration for society and we should acknowledge their contribution.
Mu Hero Mu Odisha Scheme under Biju Yuva Vahini Programme will connect with potential and aspirations of people from all sections of the society. To apply online for Mu Hero Program, visit the official website http://www.bijuyuvavahini.com/Muhero.aspx 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
