


Table of Contents

DHE Odisha UPSC Civil Service Coaching Online Application FormDHE Odisha Scheme for UPSC Civil Service Coaching Important DatesOdisha UPSC Civil Services Coaching Scheme Eligibility & DetailsScheme for UPSC Civil Service Coaching Odisha – BackgroundHelpline Number / Official Website
Department of Higher Education (DHE) in Odisha is inviting student registration and online application form for scheme for UPSC Civil Service Coaching at dheodisha.gov.in. Under this scheme, govt. will provide coaching and guidance to 100 civil services aspirants. All the students who wish to appear for the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) All India Civil Services exam can now apply online at the official website.
Odisha govt. to provide UPSC Civil Service Coaching to 100 students. Training classes to be held in 2 batches of 50 students each in morning (7:30 am to 10 am) and evening (6 pm to 8:30 pm) batch. Dhyeya IAS will provide coaching and fees for prelims-cum-mains classroom programme is Rs. 82,600. Out of this, Rs. 61,950 would be paid by the state and students will have to pay Rs 20,650. 
The last date to fill DHE Odisha UPSC Civil Service Coaching online application form is 10 June 2019. The result would be published on 12 June and the classes will start from 24 June 2019. All the aspirants whose parental annual income is less than 2 lakh would be provided training for free.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

DHE Odisha UPSC Civil Service Coaching Online Application Form
Below is the complete process to apply online for scheme of UPSC Civil Service Coaching in Odisha:-

Firstly visit the official DHE Odisha website at dheodisha.gov.in
At the homepage, click at the “Scheme for UPSC Civil Service Coaching” or directly click this link
Then click at the “Student Registration” tab to open the user registration form for scheme for civil service coaching as shown below:-
Odisha Scheme UPSC Civil Service Coaching Registration Form
Here candidates can enter their name, mobile number, email ID and click at “Generate OTP” button to receive OTP at their email ID and mobile number. Then candidates have to enter their verification code, password and click at “Submit” button to complete registration process.
Afterwards, candidates can login using their Mobile number and password to open the dashboard where candidates can click at the application form option. This will open the Application Form For UPSC Civil Services Coaching as shown below:-
Application Form UPSC Civil Services Coaching Odisha
Here candidates can fill all the necessary details and click at the “Submit” button to complete the online application process for DHE Odisha Scheme for UPSC Civil Service Coaching.

The selected students would be able to attend training classes which will begin from 24 June 2019 at Dhyeya IAS, OEU tower, third floor, KIIT Road, Patia, Bhubaneswar – 751024, Odisha.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

DHE Odisha Scheme for UPSC Civil Service Coaching Important Dates
All the important dates must be remembered to avail benefit of high quality coaching for UPSC Civil Service Examination in Odisha:- 


Availability of Common Application Form (CAF)
27 May 2019


Last Date to Apply Online (CAF)
10 June 2019 (11:59 PM)


Publication of selection list
12 June 2019 (04:00 PM)


Last date of Admission of Selected Applicants
20 June 2019


Commencement of Coaching Class
24 June 2019


Advertisement – DHE Odisha UPSC Civil Service Coaching Scheme PDF
Odisha UPSC Civil Services Coaching Scheme Eligibility & Details
All the candidates can check the details of DHE Odisha Scheme for UPSC Civil Services Coaching Scheme through the link given below:-
http://dheodisha.gov.in/CSC/Scheme-Details.aspx 
Here the complete eligibility criteria along with the priority has been mentioned. Moreover, students who are willing to sit in the civil services examination can also read the general terms and conditions of the exam here.
Scheme for UPSC Civil Service Coaching Odisha – Background
For a long time, there was an urgent need for a state sponsored Centre for Administrative and Academic Career development for youth from Odisha. These youths includes all the students who completed their graduation and post graduation degree from universities and are looking for a career in administrative jobs in civil services, banks, insurance sectors or in private sectors. But the success rate of graduates from Odisha universities in national level competitive examinations without any preparatory training was lower.
So, the students had to travel to Delhi to prepare for Civil Service examinations. In Delhi, students get access to quality library and private coaching centres having good and dedicated teachers. For poor but talented students of Odisha, getting training in New Delhi by spending huge amount of fees and living expenses is difficult. So, the state govt. tries to tackle this problem by funding high quality training centres in universities.
Though these centres will take some time to stabilize, so govt. felt an urgent need of selection of coaching centre which can impart quality training in a focusses manner. Moreover, the coaching center must have credential of imparting effective coaching for UPSC civil service exam and whose success rate must also be high. So, DHE Odisha has selected M/s Dhyeya IAS, New Delhi after following a transparent tender process. The coaching center has been established in Bhubaneswar in order to ensure that Odia students gets coaching opportunity in their home State. 
Helpline Number / Official Website
— For more information, candidates can call on the helpline number at 0674-2531977 / 7656949029.
— For more details, visit the official website at http://dheodisha.gov.in/Higher-Education/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: dheodisha.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
