
Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik has launched Madhu App to help school students to understand their subjects in a better and efficient way. People can now perform Odisha Madhu App free download from google play store. This e-learning android mobile application has been created by EmerTech RnD Solutions Pvt Ltd in coordination with Ganjam district administration. This app is launched in accordance with the 5T initiative of the state government.
Odisha Madhu App format provides video lectures and exercises in Odia language by highly qualified educationists and expert teachers. This android mobile app also features interactive question answering session post completion of videos. For the 1st phase, exercises of mathematics and science subjects of classes 5th to 8th have been created.
Through this app, students can clear their doubts and the students will no longer require any tuition or coaching classes. The e-learning contents of other subjects is going to be added soon.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Odisha Madhu App Download from Google Playstore
In order to transform education system, Madhu App is an honest effort of Odisha state government. MadhuApp aims to transform the current methods of pedagogy using technology with coordinated teamwork of district administration of Ganjam in a time bound fashion with utmost transparency. The direct link to download madhu app from google play store is given below:-
Odisha Madhu App Download (Android)
MadhuApp Provides Video Lectures & Exercises in Odiya Language prepared by highly qualified educationists and expert Teachers. The course has been prepared to make the videos interesting and self-explanatory using quality TLM (Teaching Learning Material). Odisha Madhu app is of 9.3 Mb size, its current version is 1.7.5 and requires android
4.1 and above.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Odisha Madhu App Features at Google Play Store
Here are the important features and highlights of Madhu App:-

Lectures by Expert School Teachers in Odiya Language
Usage of high quality TLM (Teaching Learning Material).
Interactive Question answering session post completion of videos.
Brings real classroom experience in the palms of the students.

MadhuApp is named after Utkala Gouraba Madhusudan Das (Madhu Babu) whose long efforts had resulted in the birth of modern Odisha. Madhu App is a tribute to that great son of Odisha with the goal of showering the light of knowledge to Odisha state.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://orissadiary.com/odisha-cm-naveen-patnaik-launched-madhuapp-to-offer-virtual-classroom-facility-to-students-for-learning-in-odia-language/
SAVE AS PDF
