


Table of Contents

Odisha State Employment Exchange Online Registration for JobseekersDocuments Required for Employment Exchange Registration in OdishaOdisha – Rojgar Portal ObjectiveEmpmission Odisha Eligibility Criteria
state employment exchange online registration | documents required for employment exchange registration in odisha | employment exchange registration form odisha pdf | employment exchange office | employment exchange online apply | empmission odisha | odisha rojgar portal
Odisha government has launched Rojgar Portal at empmissionodisha.gov.in to provide training to unemployed youths. The state employment exchange online registration are invited at the official website of Directorate of Employment in Odisha. People can now check documents required for employment exchange registration in odisha before applying online for empmission Odisha. The employment exchange registration form Odisha PDF is also available which will assist candidates to apply online. 
Now all the unemployed candidates will not have to make unnecessary visits to the employment exchange office in Odisha. These jobless youths can now fill employment exchange registration form Odisha PDF to apply online. The primary objective of the state gov. is to provide knowledge, skill and attitude to enable them to compete in job market. For this, Odisha State Employment Mission (OSEM) was launched by the government.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The state government of Odisha aims to provide training to 8 lakh youth in next 3 years to build competitive edge for them. Department of Skill Development & Technical Education, Govt. of Odisha will run this scheme. 
Odisha State Employment Exchange Online Registration for Jobseekers
Below is the complete procedure to apply online at empmission Odisha portal:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Firstly visit the official website of Directorate of Employment at https://empmissionodisha.gov.in/Exchange/
At the homepage, click at the “Odisha Career Service (Digital Employment Exchange)” tab
Direct Link – Odisha Employment Exchange Apply Online
At this page, click at the “Jobseeker Registration” link under ‘Employment Services’ section and accept the declaration to open the Odisha Employment Exchange Online Application Form:-
Odisha Employment Exchange Online Application Form e-Nijukti
Here candidates can select the qualification level, caste, state, district and click at the “Submit” button. A final acknowledgement page will appear to provide temporary registration number to the candidates. 
All the candidates can validate the registration number within 20 days of registration. It is important to note that candidates will have to visit the concerned district employment office with required documents in original within in due date to validate.

Check Employment Exchange Registration Form Odisha PDF to get assistance in employment exchange registration. 
Documents Required for Employment Exchange Registration in Odisha
All the candidates needs to submit attested photocopies of the following documents:-

Educational Qualification Certificate
Experience Certificate
Resume / Curriculum Vitae (CV)
Caste Certificate (optional)
Recent Photographs
Identity Documents like Voter’s ID Card / Ration Card / Passport / Birth Certificate / Domicile Certificate

Candidates can produce these documents at the employment exchange office operating in their region. After registration, candidates will be issued a registration number.
Odisha – Rojgar Portal Objective
The primary objective of empmission Odisha is to provide better job opportunities through Rojgar Portal. This is a skill development platform for unemployed youth of the state. Odisha Rozgar portal is responsive, transparent and efficient employment service to meet the skill needs of a dynamic society.
The state govt. aims to provide either paid employment to jobless youths or vocation / educational guidance and other related services. 
Empmission Odisha Eligibility Criteria
All the candidates must fulfill the eligibility criteria before making online application for empmission Odisha:-
— All the applicants must be permanent resident (citizen) of Odisha.
— The minimum educational qualification to make empmissionodisha registration is 10th pass.
— All the applicants must possess an Aadhaar Number.
Furthermore for any assistance, candidates can contact the following address:-
3 rd floor, Niyojana Bhawan
Kharavela Nagar Bhubaneswar, Odisha
Phone: +91 674 2391730 +91 674 2395460
E-mail: [email protected]





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: empmissionodisha.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
