
The state government of Odisha is all set to launch Abadan scheme for older persons. The objective of this scheme is to improve the quality of life of senior citizen by providing them basic amenities like food, shelter, medical care and old age protection.
The Abadan scheme is being framed and will be operated by Social Security and Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (SSEPD) department, Odisha. This scheme will emphasize on extension of various services for the welfare of senior citizens. In addition, it will create facilities to provide extensive rehabilitation services to the to the vulnerable elderly.
According to the notification, the state government will ensure effective implementation of the Maintenance and Welfare of People under Senior Citizens Act, 2007 through voluntary action and participation of all stakeholders.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Highlights of Odisha Abadan Scheme
To make the scheme accessible to all senior citizens government is considering on some provision which are give below

In the first year of scheme, all the stakeholder will create awareness about the rights of Senior citizens and various other services.
The government will spent as Rs 2.4 crore (Rs 8 lakh per district) for effective implementation of scheme.
A “senior citizens week” will be organised at district-level to connect senior citizens with stakeholders.
SSEPD will also cooperate with Bramhakumaris in schools and college to undertake awareness program regarding respect for elder people.
AN open complaint management system regarding grievances of senior citizen will also open at district level.
The complaints regarding elder citizen will be handled by two counselors or experts at district headquarters.

Under the Abadan Scheme, the government is going to engage volunteers at local bus stands including cities of Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Berhampur, Sambalpur and Rourkela where they will guide senior citizens about availability of seats in government and private buses. Those volunteers who are working on bus stand and guiding the senior citizen about the seats in bus would be receiving Rs. 3,000 per month from the government.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The Abadan scheme is not launched yet, hence complete information would be available only after the scheme is officially launched by the Odisha Government.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
