


Table of Contents

Ama Clinic YojanaAma Clinic ServicesAnmol Yojana FeaturesNidan Scheme FeaturesSahaya Scheme Features
Odisha government has launched Ama Clinic Yojana and Anmol Yojana for better health care services in the state. Ama clinics will provide several additional health care facilities in the urban areas whereas Anmol Yojana is to provide tablet computers to the Auxiliary Nurse Midwifes (ANMs). Subsequently, these 2 yojana will provide latest and better health services to the poor and needy ones. Moreover, Odisha govt. will start implementing these schemes from 1 January 2018 (New Year). 
Under the Ama Clinic Yojana, the state govt. will provide services like special consultations in obstetrics and gynaecology, paediatrics, medicines etc. to benefit around 45 lakh people in the urban areas. Anmol Yojana will provide Anmol tablets to the ANMs to equip them with latest equipments to monitor the real time services to the patients. 
Furthermore, the state government has also launched 2 other Health Care Scheme – Nidan Scheme for Free Diagnostics in the public health facilities and Sahaya Scheme for Free Dialysis Services in govt. hospitals. For this reason, state govt. is going to spend Rs 600 crore over a duration of 5 years.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Ama Clinic Yojana
The important features and details of this health scheme are as follows:-

This clinic yojana is to ensure availability of better health care services in the state for the economically backward people in the urban areas.
Subsequently, the primary objective of this scheme is to reduce the number of deaths due to insufficient health care services. Moreover this scheme will also reduces the Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) and Maternal Mortality Rate (MMR) across the state.
Accordingly, the state govt. will start this programme on the New Year’s eve i.e 1 Jan 2018.
Henceforth, this scheme will provide benefits to around 45 lakh people in the urban areas.
Odisha govt. will provide various services under this scheme, the list of which is given below.

Ama Clinic Services
The various services includes fixed-day consultations in the following areas:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});



Obstetrics
Gynaecology


Paediatrics
Medicine


Geriatrics
Eye Care


Physiotherapy
Psychiatric


Anmol Yojana Features
The important features and highlights of this scheme are as follows:-

This Yojana is specifically for Auxiliary Nurse Midwifes (ANMs)
Accordingly, ANMs will receive free Anmol Tablet Computers.
Henceforth, this scheme is to encourage ANMs towards proper discharge of their duties and to raise their standard.
Using these latest equipments, they can provide and monitor the real time services.
Moreover, they can use these tablet computers to provide better treatment to the patients especially for the women and children.

Nidan Scheme Features
Under this scheme, citizens will get access to free diagnostic services in various public health facilities. Subsequently, patients can avail several free tests like High-End Pathology Tests, Digital X-Ray, CT Scan and MRI. The patients will get these services in PPP mode from March 2018.
Sahaya Scheme Features
Odisha govt. is committed to ensure better health care facilities to the patients. For this reason, the state govt. has launched Sahay Scheme to provide Free Dialysis Treatment to the people. Under this scheme, state govt. will provide 127 dialysis machines in PPP mode in headquarter hospitals of 25 districts in addition to 1 at the Community Health Center till March, 2018.
Odisha govt. has launches these 4 health care programmes to reduce the number of deaths in the state due to non availability of proper health care services. All the poor and people belonging to economically weaker sections can avail the benefits of these services. Furthermore, these schemes will reduce the IMR and MMR in the state. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
