
Odisha govt. has decided to distribute 4 crore Free LED Bulbs to beneficiaries of National Food Security Act (NFSA). The state govt. will distribute these bulbs under Ama Ghare LED Light Scheme with main focus on conservation of power. Each NFSA beneficiary will get 2 LED bulbs free of cost. Each bulb will have a warranty period of 3 years. 
The responsibility for Free Distribution of 4 crore LED bulbs is given to Odisha Power Transmission Corporation Limited (OPTCL). The state govt. wants that all the process for implementation must be completed till September end. 
Govt. will implement this Free LED Bulb Scheme from next month of October 2018. people can get these Bulbs at PDS and fair price shops.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Free LED Bulbs to NFSA beneficiaries in Odisha
Under this scheme, poor people in the state will now get 2 LED lights absolutely free of cost. This LED Bulb Distribution Scheme in Odisha will be carried out under Ama Ghare LED Light Karyakram. All the bulbs to be supplied are energy efficient and usage of these bulbs will lessen the electricity bills of poor people. These LED bulbs will light up the houses of the people from economically weaker sections who can’t afford to buy energy efficient LED bulbs.
Bulbs will be distributed to the beneficiaries through Public Distribution System Retail Shops and fair price on the dates specified for ration distribution. All the PDS dealers will be paid commission to distribute LED Bulbs. Earlier, the state govt. has made this announcement in Odisha Budget 2018-19 with focus on raising the living standards of people. For this Free LED Bulb Distribution Scheme, the state govt. has allocated Rs. 125 crore.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

In another directive, govt. has issued directions to food supply officers to immediately update the number of food security scheme beneficiaries. Odisha govt. will issue ration cards to all those beneficiaries who submitted their records till 2 September 2018. 
As per the latest report, around 79.51 lakh out of 96.23 lakh families in the state are electrified under Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana – Saubhagya Scheme. This scheme will counter the UJALA Scheme of Central government.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
