
Odisha government has launched ARPANA Portal for retiring pensioners across the state. The pensioners can apply online for the revision of pension / family pension by going the portal link at pension.odishatreasury.gov.in. The aim of launching the portal is to provide good governance and improve the delivery services for the pensioners and employees in the state. 
The candidate who is willing to do Aadhaar authentication, will not go to the Pension Disbursing Authorities to submit any hard copy of the application while the pensioners who are not willing to do Aadhaar authentication, will go to submit the hard copy along with the pensioner signature to the office of Pension Disbursing Authorities.
ARPANA Portal stands for Apply for Revision of Pension using Aadhaar Number Authentication. The interested pensioners can apply online for Pre 2016 Pension Revision by going to the portal at pension.odishatreasury.gov.in



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

ARPANA Portal Family Pension Revision Application Form
Below is given the registration process for the both of who are willing to Aadhar authentication or not willing to Aadhar authentication:- 

The candidate has to visit the official ARPANA Portal at www.pension.odishatreasury.gov.in
Arpana Portal Odisha Pensioners
Here click at the “Apply with Aadhaar (ଆଧାର ମାଧ୍ୟମରେ ଆବେଦନ)” or directly click this link.
After the clicking, online form for PPO will be appeared on the screen as shown below.
Odisha Pension Revision Online Application Form
Here the candidate has to fill all the details in the application form including Type of pension, pensioner name, PPO number, Pension Disbursing Authority Type etc.
After completing the format, click at “Submit” button.
Afterward, Click at OPT to generate OTP for eKYC ((Authentication) of Aadhaar number. After receiving OTP, put it and verified it.
After the verified, take a print of application form and save it for future use.
Apply Without Aadhaar ( Apply for Revision of Pension Pre-2017 Pensioners)


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Here candidate has to click at Apply without Aadhaar (ଆଧାର ବିହୀନ ଆବେଦନ)
Odisha Pension Revision Offline Application Form
The application form will be filled by similar process of Aadhar authentication.
After clicking on submit, take a printout of application and save the application number to track it further.

Track Family Pension Revision Application Form
The candidate can also track their application form by going the portal at pension.odishatreasury.gov.in. Below given the steps to track the application process:- 

Visit at the home page and click at Track your Application (ଆବେଦନର ସ୍ଥିତି).
Track Your Application
Here candidate has to enter your application number and click at Track button.
After the clicking, candidate can check application status of revision pension application.

For any query regarding the application form, the candidate can make the call on the toll-free numbers – 18003456739 / 18003456770.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
