


Table of Contents

Nidan Scheme FeaturesSahaya SchemeAma Clinic YojanaAnmol Yojana
Odisha government has launched Nidan Scheme to provide high standard health care services to the citizens of state. Subsequently, all the citizens will get free diagnostic services in public health facilities in the entire state. Accordingly, all the needy people belonging to the poor and economically weaker sections of the society can avail the benefits of this scheme. Odisha govt. is going to start this scheme from 1 January 2018.
The state govt. will also provide the facilities of high end pathology tests, digital X-Ray, CT Scan and MRI absolutely free of cost. These services are provided in all the government health facilities under PPP mode by March 2018. The primary objective of this scheme is to provide best health services for the welfare of all the citizens. 
In addition to this, govt. also launches Sahaya Scheme (Free Dialysis Treatment), Ama Clinic Yojana (for urban health care) and Anmol Yojana (computer tablets for ANMs). The state govt. has allotted Rs. 600 crore for the implementation of health care scheme. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Nidan Scheme Features
The important features and highlights of this scheme are as follows:-

This scheme is to provide free diagnostic services in various public health facilities to all the citizens in the state.
The primary focus is to reduce the Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) and Maternal Mortality Rate (MMR) in the entire state.
In addition to the free diagnostic services facility, govt. will also provide free of cost facility of Pathology tests, digital X-Ray, CT Scan and MRI under PPP mode.
Odisha govt is going to start the Nidan Scheme from 1 January 2018.
Moreover, the state govt. will spend Rs 600 crore for the successful implementation of health care scheme over a span of 5 years.
Furthermore, the state govt. will also start Sahay Scheme, Anmol Yojana and Ama Clinic Yojana simultaneously in the state.

Sahaya Scheme
Under this scheme, state govt. is going to provide free dialysis treatment to the people. Under this scheme, govt. will install 127 dialysis machine in PPP mode in 25 district headquarter hospitals and 1 at Community Health Center till March 2018.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Ama Clinic Yojana
Odisha govt. is going to provide best quality health care services in the urban areas. Subsequently, Ama Clinic Yojana will include fixed-day specialist consultations in obstetrics and gynaecology, paediatrics, medicine, geriatrics, eye care, physiotherapy and psychiatric services. Accordingly, this scheme will benefit around 45 lakh citizens across the state.
Anmol Yojana
Odisha state government is also going to provide Anmol tablet computers to the Auxiliary Nurse Midwifes (ANM). This scheme will equip ANMs with latest technology such that they are able to provide real time services to the patients. Furthermore, this scheme will provide benefits especially to the pregnant women & newborn babies.
These 4 health care schemes will reduce the Mortality rate in the state. Moreover, state govt. will also provide a cash award for best performance in IMR and MMR.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
