


Table of Contents

Odisha Kalia Yojana Online Grievance Application Form 2020Odisha Kalia Scheme Grievance CategoryTrack Status of Your Odisha Kalia Yojana ApplicationUpload Documents for Self Registered Farmers (PM-KISAN)
Odisha govt. is inviting Kalia Yojana Online Grievance Application Form at kaliaportal.odisha.gov.in (earlier kalia.co.in portal). This grievance section can be used to file a grievance, new application, voluntary refund and tracking of your application status. In order to file a grievance / new application, farmers need to submit photocopy of aadhar card, ration card & 1st page & transaction history from January 2019 of bank passbook. 
People can now easily track Kalia Yojana Application Status Online using their aadhaar / token number at the official website. For filing of grievance, aadhar number is mandatory. In addition to the documents mentioned above, a small / marginal farmer must submit photocopy of land record while landless labourer must submit photocopy of MGNREGA card.
For filing of voluntary refund, applicants can return assistance to following bank account i.e xxxx. After this, voluntary refund form must be filled along with the UTR / Acknowledgement No, Name of Branch in which amount deposited and IFSC Code.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Odisha Kalia Yojana Online Grievance Application Form 2020
Here is the complete process to fill Odisha Kalia Yojana Online Grievance Application Form:-
Firstly visit the official Kalia Yojana Portal at https://kalia.odisha.gov.in/index.htmlAt the homepage, click at the “Online Grievance Application Form” link in the header section.Direct Link – https://kaliaportal.odisha.gov.in/GrievanceApplicationForm.aspxRead the instructions, click at the “Proceed” button, then a new section asking “Do You Want to File A Grievance” will open. Here click at the “Yes” button to open the Online Grievance Apply Form as shown below:-
Odisha Kalia Yojana Online Grievance Apply Form
Here candidates can enter aadhaar number and click at “Show” button to open the complete Kalia Yojana Online Grievance Application Form:-
Odisha Kalia Yojana Online Grievance Application Form
Here click at the ‘Yes‘ radio button and then select ‘grievance category‘ (as mentioned below) to open Kalia Yojana grievance application details as shown below:-
Odisha Kalia Yojana Grievance Application Details
Finally, candidates can enter personal details, bank details, farmers details, family details and upload documents to file grievance.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Odisha Kalia Scheme Grievance Category
There are 4 types of grievance categories for which a person can apply in Kalia Scheme of Odisha which are described below:-
Applicant had applied and has received installment 1 but not installment 2Applicant had applied and has received both installment 1 and installment 2Applicant hadn’t applied but has received assistanceApplicant had applied but hasn’t received assistance
Candidates can select either of these 4 categories prior to filling grievance at Kalia Yojana portal.
Track Status of Your Odisha Kalia Yojana Application
All the applicants can even track status of their Odisha Kalia Yojana Application through the link below:- https://kaliaportal.odisha.gov.in/TrackToken.aspx
The Odisha Kalia Yojana Track Application Status Online page will appear as shown below:-
Odisha Kalia Yojana Track Application Status
Here all the applicants can enter their token number in the empty box and then click at “Show” button to track their Odisha Kalia Yojana Application Status through online mode.
Upload Documents for Self Registered Farmers (PM-KISAN)
The state govt. is also inviting farmers to upload documents for Self Registered PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Scheme beneficiaries through the link here – https://kaliaportal.odisha.gov.in/ApplicationFormPMK.aspx. The Odisha Kalia Scheme documents uploading process will be carried out solely through Aadhaar number. All the PM-KISAN beneficiary farmers can now who have performed self registration at the http://pmkisan.gov.in/ portal can now upload their documents. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: kalia.co.in, green.kalia.co.in
SAVE AS PDF
 