


Table of Contents

Objective of  Biju Pucca Ghar YojanaKey features of Biju Pucca Ghar YojanaWho is covered under the schemeUnit cost & fundImplementation and Monitoring StrategyGuidelines of Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana
Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana is a rural housing scheme being run by the Odisha Government to provide pucca houses in rural areas. The basic approach behind the scheme is that Housing is a fundamental human need and is a basic requirement for human survival as well as for a decent life.
Objective of  Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana
The objective of the scheme is to convert all kutcha houses to pucca houses in rural areas of the state in a fixed time frame in a mission mode approach. A pucca house means that it should be able to withstand normal wear and tear due to usage and natural forces including climatic conditions.
Under the scheme, the kutcha houses in the rural area will be converted into pucca homes with foundation, walls & roof made of permanent material. Wall material include stones, fly ash bricks, burnt bricks, cement concrete, timber etc. The expected minimum life of the constructed pucca house should be 30 years.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Key features of Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana

Designed to provide new permanent homes to deserving & genuinely poor rural households living in kutcha houses.
Selection of beneficiaries to be made basis on number of kutcha homes in SECC 2011 survey, updated time to time.
Sanction of housing unit under the scheme in the name of women head of the household is preferred.
No contractor shall be involved in the construction of homes under the Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana.
Funds will directly be transferred to the beneficiary account through Direct Account Transfer/NEFT/RTGS/electronic fund management system.

Who is covered under the scheme
There are two components of the scheme for this purpose, BPGY (Normal) and BPGY (Special). Under the BPGY (Normal) the households from SECC 2011 having kutcha houses are covered under the scheme.
Under the BPGY (Special), rural households affected by natural/man made calamities such as fire, flood, cyclone, earth quake, communal violence, major law and order problem, elephant menace etc, and extremely poor, vulnerable and deserving who needs pucca house are covered.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

To be eligible for the scheme, the beneficiary should not have any pucca house, registered in SECC 2011 list of kutcha house, not constructed pucca home in the meantime and should not have availed pucca house in any of the government housing schemes.
Unit cost & fund
The cost of construction of pucca home with a minimum built up area of 20 Sq.Mt. excluding the toilet is Rs. 70,000/- for non IAP districts and 75,000/- for IAP districts. The cost can be revised by the state government time to time.
The funds under the scheme are released in installments on the basis of the progress in construction.
Implementation and Monitoring Strategy
The homes under the Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana are constructed by the beneficiary itself with financial support from the state government. The beneficiaries are free to set the layout, size, and design of their pucca homes as per their preferences.
District collectors will be responsible for monitoring the whole progress of Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana in their respective districts. BDO will be responsible for monitoring the scheme at block level.
Guidelines of Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana
The detailed latest guidelines of the rural housing scheme can be downloaded from the below url
Download the Guidelines of BPGY
Lottery Guidelines
Odisha Government has completed construction of 99045 pucca homes under the scheme in the year 2015-16, for detailed report, please visit http://rhodisha.gov.in/biju-pucca-ghar-yojana/.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
