
Odisha govt. has launched Khushi Scheme to provide subsidized Sanitary Pads to girls. Subsequently, the state govt. will provide sanitary napkins to all girl students studying in govt. / govt. aided schools between Class 6th to Class 12th. Accordingly, this pro women initiative is going benefit around 17 lakh girls across the state. 
The state govt. will also extend social marketing for girl students in the community at subsidized rates. Accordingly, this scheme will promote health and menstrual hygiene and also reduces the dropout rates of the girls from schools.
Khushi Scheme is a major step towards Women Empowerment as this scheme will lead to higher retention of adolescent girls in schools.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Odisha Khushi Scheme – Details
The important features and highlights of this sanitary pad distribution scheme are as follows:-

This is a major step of the state govt. to help girls in maintaining menstrual hygiene and their health.
Accordingly, all the adolescent girls studying in 6th to 12th standard in several govt. / govt. aided schools will get these sanitary napkins absolutely free of cost.
Henceforth, this scheme is going to benefit around 17 lakh girls in the Odisha state.
Subsequently, govt. will extend this scheme and distribute sanitary pads at subsidized rates to all girls and women in the community.
Furthermore, the number of girls leaving the school due to unhygienic menstrual conditions will also get reduced.

Khushi Scheme aims at universal provisioning of free sanitary napkins and is a pro-women initiative. This scheme will lead to higher retention of girls in govt. and govt. aided schools and thus will lead to Women Empowerment.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Govt. will provide free sanitary napkins to the school girls. Moreover, women in the rural areas can get these pads at subsidized prices through Asha Workers. Furthermore, Odisha govt. has also successfully implemented various other schemes exclusively for women like Mission Shakti, Mission Mamata etc. 
Related Content
— Maharashtra state govt. has also launched a similar kind of Scheme to provide sanitary napkins at just Rs. 5 – Asmita Scheme





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
