
Odisha Govt. is going to launch Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana in the state. Under this Health Insurance Scheme, the state govt. will provide Rs. 5 lakh per family per annum as healthcare assistance for secondary and tertiary procedures of treatment. This cashless treatment will benefit 70 lakh families (3.5 crore people) at all govt. and private empanelled hospitals. On the eve of 72nd Independence Day, the state govt. has roll-out this scheme. 
The state govt. has also launched Universal Health Coverage (UHC) Scheme. All the citizens visiting any government Health Institution from District to Sub-Center level will be provided all Health Service absolutely free of cost.
The health insurance cover to each member is Rs. 5 lakh. An additional amount of Rs. 2 lakh would be given to the women beneficiaries. CM Naveen Patnaik has launched Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana (BSKY) on 15 August 2018.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Odisha Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana 2018 – Health Insurance Scheme
The state govt. has launched 3 new schemes Universal Health Coverage Scheme, Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana & Drop Back Assistance. The important features and highlights of this Health Insurance Scheme are as follows:-

Universal Health Coverage (UHC) – Under this Universal Health Coverage (UHC) Scheme, every citizen who make visit to any Government Health Institution from District to Sub-Center level will get all health services free to cost. This includes waiver of all Users Fees at public health facilities upto District Headquarter Hospitals. Govt. will provide Free Healthcare Services at all Public Health Facilities.
Assistance under Biju Swasthya Kalyana Yojana – Govt. will provide Rs. 5 lakh per family per annum for all Secondary and Tertiary Cashless Health Care Assistance. Women beneficiaries can get health cover upto Rs. 7 lakh. This scheme will benefit 3.5 crore people (70 lakh families) at any govt. and private empanelled hospitals.
Drop Back Assistance – Under this Drop-back for Pregnant Women & Sick Infants, govt. will provide Rs. 500 to all pregnant women and infant who visit all Public Health Facilities. This drop-back assistance will help citizens to take transport back home after delivery / treatment in hospitals.
Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana 2018

All beneficiaries currently enrolled under the Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana (RSBY), Biju Krushak Kalyan Yojana (BKKY), as well as other low-income families, are covered under the BSKY. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Official Notification
All the 3 initiatives are launched by the State govt. from 15 August 2018. Out of the total 3.5 crore beneficiaries, there are total number of 1.5 crore women beneficiaries. The official notification is shown below:-
Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana Health Insurance Scheme
This health protection cover will be given in all public health facilities and 30 empanelled private hospitals.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
