
Odisha govt. has raised the one time honorarium for Asha Workers to Rs. 20,000 from Rs. 10,000 under Asha Abhyahati Yojana 2018. This amount would be paid under the Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS). All the Asha workers who have completed at-least 10 years of service or get retired at the age of 62 will get this financial assistance. 
Besides, the state govt. would also provide financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 to each ASHA worker under Asha Abhyahati Yojana in Odisha. This grant will be given for the purchase of umbrella, bicycle, shoe, almirah and rechargeable torchlight. 
This scheme will benefit around 47,000 Asha workers in rural and urban areas of the state.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Asha Abhyahati Yojana 2018 – Financial Assistance Increased
The important features and highlights of this scheme are as follows:-

The state govt. will provide an Rs. 20,000 as one time financial grant to each ASHA worker. This announcement was made by CM Naveen Patnaik during Ama Mukhya Mantri Ama Katha programme.
This amount would be directly credited into the bank accounts of the Asha workers.
Around 47,000 Asha workers working in rural and urban areas of the state will get benefited.
Asha workers are also getting conditional remuneration of Rs. 2,000 per month effective from 1 April 2018. This remuneration is for 5 mandatory and 4 assured activities.
This is a very people-friendly measure and Asha workers plays a vital role in providing health facilities. Asha Didi are responsible to ensure proper discharge of healthcare facilities to the poor people through Anganwadi Centers.
Odisha Assistance Asha Workers Retirement

Especially in the rural areas, the service of Asha Didi in helping the women and children is commendable. They also perform the task of making people aware about health and hygiene. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

As a result of their consistent efforts, Odisha has made a mark in the country in checking infant and maternal mortality rates significantly. This financial aid will help in improving the living standards of Asha workers. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
