
The state government of Odisha has launched Universal Eye Health Programme (UEHP) in the state. Subsequently, Odisha govt. will set up several Vision Centers in all the Community Health Centers (CHC). Moreover,  govt. will equip these centers with applicable eye-care facilities.
Under Universal Eye Health Programme, the state government will provide a total sum of Rs. 600 crore in the next five years.Subsequently, this will envisage complete wipe out of cataract from the state of Odisha by the year 2022. After completing the framework of UNEP, Odisha is the first state within the country to provide comprehensive eye care to the persons of all age groups.
The state government will open various Vision centers at Primary Health Centers (PHC) or may be at several sub-centers to cover all the citizens of the society. The government is going to create a requisite trained workforce which will help in the execution and sustaining the gains of the program.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Universal Eye Health Programme (UEHP)
According to the official data, if govt. will provide proper cure to the citizens, over 80 % people in the Odisha state can be cured. For this reason, govt. will provide free operation facility and applicable glasses to the citizens. Moreover, the government will also provide free of cost corneal transplantation surgeries to corneal blind people.
The eye care or vision center will also provide free treatment of diabetes, retinopathy and other serious eye-problems and this free treatment will be given at the government aided hospitals. Moreover, all the patients of glaucoma will get free treatment in next three months.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

In addition to this, UEHP program will also cover all the students of the state. Under this program, govt will perform screening of the students for any refractive error in the vision. In addition to this, students will also get spectacles free of cost in the school itself.
The state government has also introduced a web-based information observation system that will facilitate to establish linkages with all non-public and govt. empanelled eye hospitals.
The state government will form a committee with all stakeholders such as government officers, representatives of voluntary organizations and academicians that will be responsible for the eye care activities under the programme.
Related Content
The citizens of Odisha can also see the following welfare schemes of the state govt :-
a) SAMPURNA Scheme for Pregnant Women in Odisha.
b) ABADAN Scheme for Senior Citizens of Odisha.
c) Kalinga Sikhya Sathi Yojana (KSSY) Education Loan Scheme for Students of Odisha.
d) Tritiya Prakriti Surakshya Abhiyan for the Welfare of Transgender Community in Odisha.
e) UNNATI Scheme for the Development of Urban Areas of the Odisha Govt.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
