
ओडिशा वोटर लिस्ट 2020 (PDF) अब सीईओ की आधिकारिक वेबसाइट ceoorissa.nic.in पर उपलभ्ध है, नयी मतदाता सूची में अपना नाम अपनी जानकारी या EPIC नंबर के आधार पर खोजें और वोटर ID कार्ड डाउनलोड करेंElection Commission of India (ECI) had announced Lok Sabha Election Poll Dates in the country. In the Odisha state, voting was held in 4 Phases namely Phase 1 (voting on 11 April 2019), 2 (voting on 18 April 2019), 3 (voting on 23 April 2019), 4 (voting on 29 April 2019). Chief Electoral Officer has now released the CEO Odisha Voter List 2020 with Photo where people can now perform name search online in the PDF electoral rolls. Now citizens can download Voter ID Card through the official website at ceoorrisa.nic.in
People can now check their name in the updated district wise CEO Odisha Voter List 2020 PDF to caste their important vote. Odisha CEO Voters List 2019-2020 is available in the PDF format, so find name manually in the downloaded list and note down the voter slip number before going to the polling booth for voting.
The entire PDF CEO Orrisa Voter List 2020 file (PDF Electoral Rolls) is now available. Here citizens can perform manual searching in the Odisha CEO Voter List 2020. Moreover, people can adopt a hassle free process and check their names online.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

CEO Odisha Voter List 2020 (PDF Electoral Rolls) Download
Below is the complete procedure to download PDF electoral rolls (CEO Voters List 2020 with Photo) of Odisha:-

Firstly visit the official website at ceoorissa.nic.in
At the homepage, click at the “View Electoral Roll” link under ‘For Voters’ section or directly click this link
Afterwards, the CEO Odisha Voter List 2020 PDF download page will appear as shown below:-
CEO Odisha Voter List 2020 PDF
Here citizens can select the district, assembly constituency, booth, captcha, “Ok” button and then click at the “Mother E-Roll” option to open the Odisha Voter List with photo as shown below:-
Odisha Voter List 2020 With Photo
People can perform Odisha Voter List with Photo Download and take a printout for finding their voter slip number.

In the downloaded CEO Voter List with Photo, people can search their name manually before going to polling booths to caste their votes.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

CEO Odisha Voter List Name Search Online – Download Voter ID Card
People can even search their name in the Odisha Electoral Rolls through online mode:-

To find name in the CEO Voter List 2020, people have to firstly visit the same official website at http://www.ceoorissa.nic.in/main.html
On the homepage, click at the “Search Your Name in the Voter List” option or directly click this link
Subsequently, voters can now search their name in the CEO Voter List 2019-2020 and download Voter ID Card using their name or ID Card number as shown below:-
Odisha Voter ID Card Download
Search can be made by Elector’s Photo Identity card number or Elector’s name. While finding name, an elector can select either the Assembly Constituency or the District first.

It is recommended to type only first two to four characters of name and relation name in input text box.
People can also find polling stations location on google map, apply online, give suggestions & complaints, download forms (add, delete, correct & transfer) and even download voters guide. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
