
Odisha government has launched Mukhyamantri Karigar Sahayata Scheme 2019 for craftsmen on 5 March 2019. Under Mukhya Mantri Karigar Sahayata Yojana, govt. will provide Rs. 800 as monthly allowance to craftsmen with minimum prescribed experience. In order to avail the craftsmen welfare scheme benefits, the annual income of the beneficiaries must be less than Rs. 1 lakh.
Under Mukhya Mantri Karigar Sahayata Yojana 2019, govt. will also provide Rs. 1000 monthly allowance for all craftsmen above 80 years of age. Directorate of Handicrafts is going to function as a nodal department of the scheme.
The state govt. will constitute selection committee in the district level under collectors of the respective districts for the selection of beneficiaries.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Odisha Mukhya Mantri Karigar Sahayata Scheme 2019
CM Naveen Patnaik has launched a new scheme namely Mukhya Mantri Karigar Sahayata Yojana in Odisha to benefit craftsmen. All the craftsmen having an experience of more than 10 years and annual income less than 1 lakh will get Rs. 800 p.m as allowance. In addition to this, craftsmen of more than 80 years of age will get Rs. 1000 as monthly allowance under the Mukhyamantri Karigar Sahayata Scheme.
All the craftsmen who have worked for at-least 10 years are eligible for the Mukhyamantri Karigar Sahayata Yojana. The Directorate of handicrafts would be the nodal department for the successful implementation of Odisha Mukhyamantri Karigar Sahayata Scheme 2019. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

As per the official sources, a selection committee would be constituted by the state govt. at the district level. This committee would work under collectors of the respective districts for the selection of Mukhyamantri Karigar Sahayata Scheme beneficiaries. 
After the selection of all craftsmen beneficiaries under the Mukhya Mantri Karigar Sahayata Scheme, the state govt. will provide financial assistance through the block development officers (BDOs). The primary objective is to enhance the skills of the sculptors and to enable them to lead of honour and dignity.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
