


Table of Contents

Odisha Mukhyamantri Krushi Udyog Yojana Application / Registration FormHow to Apply Online for Agriculture Scheme in OdishaList of Documents for Agriculture Subsidy on Farmers LoansCheck Mukhyamantri Krushi Udyog Yojana Beneficiary StatusFeatures / Guidelines of CM Krishi Udyog Yojana Odisha
Odisha government is inviting Mukhyamantri Krushi Udyog Yojana online application form at www.apicol.nic.in. In this CM Krishi Udyog Loan Scheme 2020, govt. will provide subsidy on farmers loans upto Rs. 50 lakh to encourage setting up of new agro industries. Individual / Group can apply by filling Mukhyamantri Krushi Udyog Yojana online registration / application form at the official website. Moreover, check MKUY guidelines, beneficiary status and complete details of the scheme.
This agriculture scheme in Odisha will result in the betterment of farming and agriculture in the state and also deals with simplification of loan taking procedure. Mukhyamantri Krushi Udyog Yojana 2020 will enable the farmers to avail loans in a hassle free manner through the website www.apicol.nic.in. The state govt. has also launched Mukhya Mantri Abhinav Krishi Yantripati Samman Yojana to provide rewards to farmers.
Here farmers can make registration, submit their completed application and even make their payment online for MKUY Scheme. Both these new schemes would result in additional income for farmers and generation of new employment opportunities. Odisha state govt. had launched this Krushi Udyog Yojana on 17 May 2018. This will encourage usage of innovative tools and implements in agriculture and realize the vision of “Doubling Farmers Income by 2022”.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Odisha Mukhyamantri Krushi Udyog Yojana Application / Registration Form
Agriculture and Farmers Empowerment Department has launched Krushi Udyog Yojana 2020 to assist people who are willing to work in agro industries. Here are the complete details including application / registration process, checking beneficiary status and guidelines of the scheme:-
How to Apply Online for Agriculture Scheme in Odisha
Below is the complete process to apply online for Agriculture Scheme in Odisha:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Firstly visit the official website at http://www.apicol.nic.in/
At the homepage, scroll over the “Beneficiary Master” tab in the header and then click at the “Registration” link
Odisha Mukhyamantri Krushi Udyog Yojana Apply Online

Read the prerequisites and then click at the “Registration” button or directly click this link
Afterwards, select “No” if you do not have attempted / completed registration earlier and then the registration form will appear as below:-
Odisha Mukhyamantri Krushi Udyog Yojana Online Registration Form

Here applicant needs to fill applicant details (application type, family ID), project information, proposed Location of CAE with land particulars, documents to be uploaded and finally preview & submit.

List of Documents for Agriculture Subsidy on Farmers Loans
Here is the complete list of documents required to avail agriculture subsidy on farmers loans:- 
A) Passport size photograph of the Applicant. (Maximum 50KB)
B) Identity Proof.(Voter ID/Aadhaar No.) (Maximum 400KB)
C) Signature of the Applicant. (Maximum 50KB)
D) Land record / Lease document (more than 15 years) (where Khata No. / Plot No. is reflected). (Maximum 950KB)
E) Bank Consent Letter (Optional)(Maximum 500KB in .pdf format)
Registration Guidelines
Farmer ID, Aadhaar No. and Mobile No. are mandatory for the Registration. All the fields marked with (*) are mandatory.
DPR Guidelines
1) Only those Applicants who have completed the Registration are eligible to fill DPR.
2) Reference No, Farmer ID and Aadhaar No. are mandatory for the DPR.
3) All the fields marked with (*) are mandatory.
Payment Guidelines
A) Only those Applicants who have completed the DPR are eligible for Online Payment of ₹ 10000 as the security amount.
B) The security amount of ₹ 10000 is refundable.
Check Mukhyamantri Krushi Udyog Yojana Beneficiary Status
Here is the complete process to check Odisha Mukhyamantri Krushi Udyog Yojana Beneficiary Status:-

Visit the same official website at http://www.apicol.nic.in/
At the homepage, scroll over the “Beneficiary Master” tab and then click at the “Beneficiary Status” link
Direct Link – http://www.apicol.nic.in/GoAhead/CheckBeneficiaryStatus
Afterwards, the Odisha Mukhyamantri Krushi Udyog Yojana beneficiary status tracking page will appear as shown below:-
Odisha Mukhyamantri Krushi Udyog Yojana Beneficiary Status

Here applicants can enter reference number, voter ID card no., aadhaar number and click at the “Submit” button to check beneficiary status.

Features / Guidelines of CM Krishi Udyog Yojana Odisha
The important features and highlights of this scheme are as follows:-

Impact on Agro-Industries – Govt. wants to assist companies / firms / units for the development and monitoring of industries based on agriculture, horticulture and food processing.
Speedy and Time Bound Implementation – All the interested candidates will have to make online registration at www.apicol.nic.in and submit the application form. Govt. will provide financial assistance in a speedy (fast forward) manner to set up agro-industries.
Management of Industries – After setting up of agro industries, APICOL and NIC will consistently monitor the entire progress of the industries.
Easy Process – Minimal Time Wastage – As all the application filling and the management processes will be carried out through portal, so the owners of the industries should not worry about time wastage.
Subsidy for Agro Industries – The state govt. will provide a subsidy to the agro industries under the Mukhyamantri Krishi Udyog Yojana 2020.
Subsidy For Other Industries – Educated Youths will be encouraged to set up new manufacturing units for agriculture, horticulture, fisheries, animal resource development and food processing sector and can avail subsidy upto Rs. 50 lakh.
Payment and Cash Refund – All the transactions from the bank account of the entrepreneurs will be done through safe and secure payment gateways.
For complete MKUY Guidelines, click the link below:-
http://www.apicol.nic.in/Content/Approved%20CAE%20guideline.pdf


Both these scheme will result in the development of agriculture and agricultural labourers. Under Mukhyamantri Abhinav Krishi Yantrapati Samman Yojana, govt. will select 101 farmers (11 from states and 90 from districts). Top 3 farmers will get Rs. 2 lakh, Rs. 1.5 lakh and Rs. 1 lakh while all other farmers will get Rs. 15,000 each.
All the farmers who invents innovative tools and implements will be honoured and can setup their own manufacturing units or company and will register them under Startup Odisha Initiative. Thus this scheme will allow innovators to get a monthly assistance of Rs. 20,000 per month. Furthermore if any farmer wants to improvise their tools and implements, then govt. willl provide assistance upto Rs. 15 lakh.
For more details, visit the official website at http://www.apicol.nic.in/ 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: http://www.apicol.nic.in/
SAVE AS PDF
