
Odisha govt. has announced to include 5 lakh new beneficiaries in Madhu Babu Pension Yojana under PEETHA scheme. This inclusion will ensure that not a single eligible person is left out under social security scheme benefits. Moreover, CM has also announced that around 40,000 artist beneficiaries would also get pension under the Mukhyamantri Kalakar Sahayata Yojana.
PEETHA (People Empowerment – Enabling Transparency and Accountability of Odisha initiatives) scheme is to be implemented from 15 December 2018. Peetha scheme is launched under the flagship Ama Gaon Ama Bikash Scheme to create awareness and transparency in distribution of items under AMA LED, Mission Shakti benefits, Madhu Babu Pension scheme.
The state govt. would organize camps at gram panchayat level and the best panchayat is going to get reward of Rs. 5 lakh. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

5 Lakh More Madhu Babu Pension Yojana Beneficiaries – Peetha Scheme
Till date, there are 43 lakh Madhu Babu Pension Yojana beneficiaries. Now the state govt. will include more than 5 lakh beneficiaries totalling to 48 lakh beneficiaries under the Madhu Babu Pension Scheme. All these beneficiaries would get pension at camps organized at block level between 15th & 20th date. This decision will ensure that not a single beneficiary is left out of the social security schemes benefits.
All the new beneficiaries would be added from 15th December 2018. 40,000 artists will also get assistance under the Mukhyamantri Kalakar Sahayata Yojana. All the beneficiaries would get assistance of Rs. 1200 per month. Assistance and pension would be given by the collectors through special camps under the PEETHA Scheme.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Odisha govt. has always emphasized on social security of downtrodden people and the primary aim is to bring smile on everyone’s face and to help the citizens to lead a dignified life. Under PEETHA Scheme, govt. will organize gram panchayats b/w 15th & 20th date of each month from December 2018. 

CM @Naveen_Odisha has announced to include five lakh new beneficiaries in Madhu Babu Pension Yojana to ensure that not a single eligible person is left out. State Government’s own scheme currently benefits 43 lakh people and new beneficiaries will be added from 15th December. pic.twitter.com/Z2rAZSear6
— CMO Odisha (@CMO_Odisha) December 13, 2018

Madhu Babu Pension Yojana was launched in January 2008 by merging 2 pension schemes – Old Age Pension and Odisha disability pension yojana. All the beneficiaries get Rs. 300 p.m lying in the age group of 60 years to 79 years and Rs. 500 per month for people of 80 years of age or above. MBPY scheme also extends benefits to widows, leprosy and AIDS benefits. 
Unmarried women above 30 years of age who belongs to BPL family and has individual income below Rs. 24,000 per annum are also eligible under MBPY. This decision is going to put an additional burden of Rs. 60 crore for 4 months (December to March) of the current 2018-19. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
