
Odisha Govt. has raised Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana (BSKY) assistance for women to Rs. 10 lakh (previously Rs. 7 lakh) for secondary and tertiary treatment procedures. BSKY Scheme of Odisha is going to benefit around 3.5 crore people out of which 1.5 crore are women beneficiaries. This universal health insurance scheme is a cashless treatment scheme for all beneficiaries at all govt. and private empanelled hospitals. 
The limit of treatment cost is Rs. 5 lakh for each citizen but for women beneficiaries, an additional amount of Rs. 5 lakh would be given. Previously, annual income limit for cancer, heart, and kidney was raised to Rs. 3 lakh from Rs. 1 lakh.
All the people can check the complete details and new guidelines for Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana to avail cashless treatment.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Odisha Biju Swasthya Kalyana Yojana Women Beneficiaries Assistance
Here the important features and highlights of Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana (BSKY) Scheme in Odisha:-

Govt. will provide Rs. 5 lakh per family per annum for all Secondary and Tertiary Cashless Health Care Assistance. Women beneficiaries will get health cover upto Rs. 10 lakh (earlier Rs. 7 lakh).
This scheme will benefit 3.5 crore people (70 lakh families) at any govt. and private empanelled hospitals. Around 1.5 crore women beneficiaries to be benefited with this raised assistance amount of Rs. 10 lakh
All the state citizens either Above poverty Line (APL) or Below Poverty Line (BPL) category are covered. This cashless healthcare facility is being provided to all the people and even there is no requirement of any income, residence or any document.
Annual Income Limit for cancer, heart, and kidney is now Rs. 3 lakh (earlier Rs. 1 lakh).
Rs. 2,000 conveyance charge per patient in case of referral hospital outside Odisha.
Beneficiary families are not required to pay any premium amount as the Odisha govt. will pay the full premium on behalf of the beneficiary family.
Free Healthcare services under BSKY Scheme are available in all Government Medical College Hospitals across Odisha. 
Odisha citizens can also take the BSKY scheme benefits outside the state. For this, all the state & central govt. hospitals needs to be empanelled under BSKY scheme.
Approx. 4,036 medical packages are included under the Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana (BSKY) whereas PM Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) covers only 1,343 packages.
Treatment of all the pre-existing diseases would be covered under Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana. Swasthya Mitras are present at each one of the empanelled hospitals to assist people in getting treatment.
This health protection cover will be given by all premier hospitals across India. Odias who are living outside Odisha can now also avail the benefits of BSKY scheme anywhere across the country.

Patients belonging to either APL or BPL category can also avail free blood bank facility free of cost.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Under BSKY Scheme, Odisha govt. is going to provide free services which would cover all procedures in all government health facilities. This includes in-patient beds, surgeries, operation theatre (OT) facility, ICU facility without any charge. 
BSKY also promises free services in government hospitals up to district-level and Drop Back Assistance for pregnant women and infants.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://odishatv.in/odisha/odisha-govt-hikes-bsky-assistance-for-women-to-rs-10-lakh-381417
SAVE AS PDF
