


Table of Contents

Application Forms of Kalinga Sikhya Sathi Yojana (KSSY)List of Banks for KSSY Education LoanApply Online for KSSY at vidyalakshmi.co.inList of Documents Required for KSSYEligibility Criteria of Kalinga Sikhya Sathi Yojana (KSSY)
The state government has launched Kalinga Sikhya Sathi Yojana (KSSY) to provide education loan for those student who are pursuing higher studies. Under this scheme, the students would be provided education loan at an interest rate of just 1% by the several banks.
The objective of Kalinga Sikhya Sathi Yojana (KSSY) is to reduce the burden of parents who can not afford to fee for higher studies. The state government has allocated the fund of Rs. 500 crore in the state budget for successful implementation of this scheme.
Moreover, this scheme will provide loan up to Rs. 10 lakh at 1% of interest rate to the students. The intention behind this scheme is to motivate the poor students to complete the higher studies.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Application Forms of Kalinga Sikhya Sathi Yojana (KSSY)
Interested and eligible students can apply for Sikhya Sathi Yojana through both offline and online modes to get education loan. The offline applications can be made by visiting any of the following bank branches. 
List of Banks for KSSY Education Loan


S. No.
Bank Name


1
Allahabad bank


2
Andra Bank


3
Bank of Baroda


4
Bank of India


5
Bank Of Maharastra


6
Bharatiya Mahila Bank


7
Canara Bank


8
Central Bank


9
central Bank of India


10
Dena Bank


11
IDBI Bank


12
India Bank


13
India Overseas Bank


14
Oriental Bank of Commerce


15
Punjab & Sind Bank


16
Punjab National Bank


17
State Bank of Bikaner & Jaipur


18
State Bank of Hyderabad


19
State Bank of India


20
State bank of Mysore


21
State Bank of Travancore


22
Syndicate Bank


23
UCO Bank


24
Union Bank of India


25
United Bank of India


26
Vijaya Bank


27
Axis Bank Ltd


28
Bandhan Bank


29
City Union Bank


30
DCB


31
Federal Bank 


32
HDFC Bank


33
ICICI Bank


34
Indus Ind Bank


35
Karnatak Bank


36
Karur vysya Bank


37
Kotak Mahindra Bank


38
laxmi Vilas Bank


39
Standard Chartered Bank


40
the South Indian Bank Ltd


41
Yes Bank


42
Orissa State Co-op. Bank


The sample application form of KSSY education loan scheme can be downloaded from the below link
Sample Application Form Download.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Apply Online for KSSY at vidyalakshmi.co.in
Below is the step by step online application procedure for Kalinga Sikhya Sathi Yojana (KSSY) education loan scheme
STEP 1: Visit the official website at dheodisha.gov.in.
STEP 2: After reaching on website, click on “Kalinga Sikhya Sathi Yojana(KSSY)” link.
STEP 3: On the next page, all the guidelines and online application link is provided. Read all the scheme guidelines and online application form instructions and click on “Click here to apply” button at the bottom of the page.
STEP 4: A new portal named www.vidyalakshmi.co.in will be opened, click the “Register” link to fill the registration form for education loan.
STEP 5: After clicking the “Register” button, fill all the required details in the appeared form.
STEP 6: After filling all the details, click on terms and conditions link because without click on terms and condition link candidate will not be able to complete the form.
STEP 7: Then click on “Submit” button and the candidate will be registered successfully.
STEP 8:  After registration, candidate can login using his/her email and password.
STEP 9:  Candidate have to click on “Kalinga Sikhya Sathi Yojana (KSSY) Application Form 2017-18” link.
STEP 10: Application form will be appeared on the next page, fill all details in form and submit.
List of Documents Required for KSSY
The list of required documents for applying for the education loan under Kalinga Sikhya Sathi Yojana is available at the below link
http://dc1.dheorissa.in/SAMS_DOCS/3_30_2017_3_56_48_PMDocuments_to_be_produce.pdf
Eligibility Criteria of Kalinga Sikhya Sathi Yojana (KSSY)

This scheme is only for citizens of Odisha state.
Applicant’s family income should be less than 4.5 lakh per annum from all sources.
Security will be deposited as per bank rules.
All category students even SC/ST and backward can apply for the loan.

The students who wants to undergo higher studies in education, medical, engineering, management, law and others can avail the education loan under the new scheme.
To get more information about the scheme visit on official website dheodisha.gov.in





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
