
Union Minister for MSME, Mr. Giriraj Singh has announced to launch One District One Product Scheme in Odisha very soon. Under ODOP scheme, each district in Odisha is assigned a single product which is available in abundance and for which the place is famous. This is done to provide market link to the farmers and to make small industries successful in the state. Central govt. will publish the complete list of district wise products (pdf) and launches the website soon. 
Govt. will conduct a survey of districts in Odisha on potentials of starting new MSME units. These units are in aromatic, agro, marine food processing, organic food marketing, turmeric and ginger processing. List of products will be made on the basis of this survey and then will be uploaded on the official website. 
This announcement was made while participating at the inaugural function of SC-ST State Conclave cum Exhibition under National SC-ST Hub and inauguration of NSICs Dharmapada Bhawan here.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Odisha One District One Product (ODOP) Scheme – List & Website
One District One Product Scheme in Odisha will help farmers and small traders to a large extent. Under ODOP Scheme, people can start their small business with the product being designated to the district and create more employment opportunities. List of Products for each district and website will be launched soon. Govt. will take farmers of Kandhamal district to Maharashtra for on the field visit. These farmers will see the agro-clusters and then around 50,000 entrepreneurs will be imparted training in Odisha. 
Central govt. is planning to make 18 lakh new youth entrepreneurs in the near future. Several Mobile Vans will move in rural areas of the state to impart basic skill training by MSME Ministry. Mr. Dharmendra Pradhan said that the National SC-ST Hub launched by PM Modi has already became a mass movement in MSME sector. This unique initiative is to groom SC-ST entrepreneurs. This will create hundreds of new job opportunities and enable them to become a ‘Job Creator’ rather than a ‘Job Seeker’. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise (MSME) sector is a major contributor to GDP and to promote economic growth. Consistent efforts to include all stakeholders including states, industry associations, incubators, banks, CPSEs to identify synergies are being made. This is to ensure that all stakeholders must work collaboratively and cohesively towards a shared goal.
Govt. is making every possible effort to encourage entrepreneurs to start new ventures. This would enable them to sell minor forest produce and organic agri products which are available in tribal dominated districts.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
