
The state government of Odisha is going to launch a New Irrigation scheme in the state. This is a new scheme called Nabakrushna Choudhury Secha Unnayan Yojana with an initial amount of Rs. 635 crore for the duration of three years. The objective of the scheme is to provide strengthen the irrigation distribution system across the state by reviving of canal systems.
Under the Nabakrushna Choudhury Secha Unnayan Yojana, the state government will provide 55,000 hectares of land for the irrigation facilities. This scheme was approved on the birth anniversary of freedom fighter, socialist and former CM Nabakrushna Choudhury, 23 November 2017. This scheme will be implemented in Nabarangpur and Malkangiri districts. 
As per the released notification, many major medium and minor irrigation projects were quite old in the state. These old projects are not working properly that’s why the state government has decided to launch new irrigation scheme. This new scheme will focus on renovation and modernization of canals to raise the potential and utilization. The state government will establish 15 new Mega Lift Irrigation projects.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Nabakrushna Choudhury Secha Unnayan Yojana
The state government has informed that they will set up 14 major and medium irrigation project as well as 284 minor irrigation project on 46,296 hectares land under the scheme. In addition, Odisha government will also reserve 8,719 hectares of land by extending the scope of six major and medium irrigation projects of the canal for creating the new ayacut.
As per the data, around 30 percent of the irrigation projects which were created earlier, their potential not being utilized due to deterioration of distribution system and siltation of reservoirs. This scheme will help in revival of old projects and implemented in the all the districts of the state. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Moreover, the government has given its approval to complete the work of tendering process. This tender process will be started by water resources department. The state government will receive at least Rs. 6,000 crore from the tenders process. This amount will be to the optimal utilization of the budgetary provision for 2018-19.
The state government want to use this amount in the financial year 2018 – 19. Therefore, the government has decided to start the tender process as soon as possible because the tendering process takes at least six month time to start from the invitation of tender to awarding of works.
New Irrigation Scheme Odisha





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
