
Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik has launched Soura Jalanidhi scheme for farmers on 30 November 2018 to increase the use of solar energy in agriculture & empowerment of farmers. Interested farmers can avail solar agricultural water pumps at 90% subsidized rates by filling the online application form at odishasolarpump.nic.in. The state govt. has now announced an ambitious plan to supply 5,000 solar-powered agricultural pumps to incentivize farmers and to reduce the state burden on subsidy. 
Soura Jalanidhi scheme will promote the use of green energy, reduce pollution and will also ensure that farmers have sufficient electricity for farming activities. The scheme has been launched for the overall development and progress of villages and agriculture and to irrigate additional 2500 acres of land in the state. 
In the first phase, the farmers of the unserved and underserved areas will be given the facility and later it will be implemented in the whole state. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Odisha Soura Jalanidhi Scheme Online Application Form for Farmers
The state govt. has started Soura Jalanidhi program under which solar pumps would be given to the farmers of Odisha with upto 90% subsidy. Below is the complete procedure to apply online for Soura Jalanidhi scheme:-

Visit the official website odishasolarpump.nic.in
At the homepage, click at the “Apply Online” link or directly click this link
Then enter the proceed button to open the Soura Jalnidhi scheme online application form and enter the complete details.
Next, click at the “Submit” button to submit the completed online application form. Finally, candidates can Login to avail subsidy on agricultural pumpsets.

This agriculture water pump scheme will benefit ryots as they would be able to irrigate their crops during day time. Moreover with an increase in electricity demand, the shift of agricultural load to solar energy will save investment on costly thermal power. This scheme will lessen the cost burden of our farmers and will also increase farm incomes.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

All the small and marginal farmers having valid farmer ID with minimum 0.5 acre cultivable land holding and a dug well will be covered under the Soura Jalanidhi programme. Around 5,000 solar water pumps will be given to the farmers of Odisha which will create an irrigation potential of an additional 2500 acres in the state.

Chief Minister Shri @Naveen_Odisha launching ‘Sourajalanidhi’ Scheme at Secretariat. pic.twitter.com/qUmQMDwi8A
— I&PR Dept. Odisha (@IPR_Odisha) October 30, 2018

 This function was attended by approximately 1000 farmers from around 30 districts through video conference. This scheme will promote usage of solar photo voltaic pumpsets and will reduce the carbon foot print in the state. The execution will be carried out as per the operational modalities of OREDA based on the online application and deposit / transfer of farmer share as per intimation of go-ahead.
References
— Candidates can check application status – Soura Jalnidhi Scheme Status Check
— All the applicants can read – Soura Jalnidhi Scheme Guidelines before making online application.
— For more details, visit the official website odishasolarpump.nic.in





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
