
Odisha govt. is going to launch Free Smartphone Yojana 2018 to provide internet enabled mobile phones to women farmers. This scheme will enable small and marginal women farmers to have access to market prices, weather based info and new agricultural products. To avail free of cost smartphones, women will have to make online registration during the Kharif Season.
The state govt. will launch this new scheme in phases with disbursal of Android phones to around 70% of women farmers in 1st phase. Cooperation Minister Surya Narayan Patro has announced this scheme for women farmers as the previous smartphone scheme were applicable only for male farmers.
This scheme will have a major impact on the agricultural production in Odisha. Moreover, the primary objective is “doubling the farmers income by 2022”.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Free Smartphone Yojana 2018 – Features
In all the existing free smartphone schemes in odisha, only the male farmers were entitled to avail the benefits. Now the female farmers will get these Android based mobile phones with 4G Internet Connectivity. The important features and highlights of this Odisha free smartphone yojana are as follows:-

Now all the women farmers will get free smartphones to boost their agricultural production.
With these smartphones, women empowerment is the main focus. This scheme will enable women farmers to receive tips from agricultural department.
Women farmers can utilize these smartphones to ensure better crops productivity and higher produce depending on the nature of soil and climatic conditions.
These free mobile phones will enable small and marginal farmers to access up-to-date market related information. Women can gather info. on current prices of agricultural commodities in different markets. Even they can use message to know the value of their own crop produce.
All the weather based information will remain visible on their mobile phones and alerts facility will also be provided.
Furthermore, farmers can also gather info. on various Odisha Government Schemes currently running for the welfare of farmers.

The total number of women farmers in the state is very less, so the state govt. will focus on its effective implementation. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Free Smartphone Yojana 2018 Application Form
Just like Free Smartphone Yojana in other states, farmers will have to make online registration to get android based phone. These mobile phones will also provide info. regarding crop loans schemes of Odisha govt. 
For this reason, the co-operation department will open a new dedicated portal. This portal will open very soon. All the women farmers needs to fill and submit the completed application form at this new portal.
Odisha govt. is also going to sanction a loan of Rs. 7600 crore to farmers during Kharif Season. Odisha govt. is a pro-farmer and is consistently working to improve the living conditions of farmers in the state.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
