
The state government of Odisha has released the 3rd phase list of beneficiaries under Krushak Assistance for Livelihood and Income Augmentation (KALIA) scheme. Odisha KALIA Scheme List of Beneficiaries for first, second and third phase is now available online at kalia.odisha.gov.in. All the farmers can download the Kalia Scheme beneficiary list 2019-20 in pdf format to check their name in the all phase list of Kalia Yojana. The name included in this list are of all beneficiaries whether their name appears in the 1st, 2nd or 3rd phase of Kalia Scheme in Odisha.
This Odisha Kalia Scheme Final Phase Beneficiary List is now available and the govt. has made efforts that no single eligible farmer is excluded from this list of farmers. All the farmers who have previously filled in Green forms to include their name in the Kalia Yojana Odisha Name List can now find their names in the KALIA Yojana third phase gram panchayat wise list of beneficiaries.
The state cabinet committee has decided to expand the scope of second component of Kalia Scheme to include another 4 lakh landless agricultural households. The state govt. is going to bear the additional burden of Rs. 500 crore to execute this decision.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Odisha KALIA Yojana New Beneficiary List 2019-20 PDF Download
Below is the complete procedure to check name online in the KALIA Scheme 3rd phase list of beneficiaries or download Kalia Yojana beneficiary list for third phase to find name manually:-

Firstly visit the official website kalia.odisha.gov.in
At the homepage, click at the “Beneficiary List” option in the header.
Direct link – https://green.kalia.co.in/BeneficiaryKalia.aspx
Afterwards, KALIA Scheme beneficiary List of farmers 3rd Phase will appear as shown below:-
Odisha Kalia Yojana List 2020
Here candidates can enter the “District name“, “Block / ULB Name” and “Gram Panchayat (G.P.) and then click at the “View” button to open the Kalia Scheme gram panchayat wise (district wise) list of beneficiaries as shown below:-
Odisha Kalia Yojana List 2020 District Wise
In this there are 2 columns, 1st is for small and marginal farmers and 2nd is for downloading landless agricultural labourers list. People can click at the download link in the front of the either of download option to open the Kalia Scheme Gram Panchayat Wise list of beneficiaries:-
Odisha Kalia Yojana New List PDF
Candidates can download this Kalia Scheme gram panchayat wise list of beneficiaries in pdf format to find their name manually in the list.

The Cooperation department officials said the KALIA Scheme list of beneficiaries for Phase 3 is even available at 6,799 gram panchayats (GP) across the State. The Cooperation dept. has urged all small and marginal farmers and landless agriculture labourers to visit the panchayat office and verify the list. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Odisha govt. is also inviting Kalia Yojana Online Grievance Application Form to raise any complaints regarding Kalia Scheme. Click at Odisha KALIA Scheme 2019-20 Details to get more information about the scheme. 
Kalia Barta Information Service
In order to popularize the scheme, the state govt. has started “KALIA Barta” which is an innovative information service and inaugurated a designated website www.kalia.odisha.gov.in
KALIA scheme brings around 92% of cultivators of the state under its umbrella with an outlay of Rs. 10,000 crore. This includes almost all needy landless cultivators , who can avail the benefits of this scheme through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) Mode. Under KALIA Yojana, govt. employees, retired persons of government wings or PSUs, income tax assessees and farmers with big land holding are not eligible. 
For more details on Kalia Yojana, visit the official website https://kalia.odisha.gov.in/index.html





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: kalia.co.in
SAVE AS PDF
