
Odisha govt. has presented Odisha Budget 2018-19 and has started Ama Ghare LED Light Karyakram. In Odisha Budget 2018-19, the state govt. has launched various new schemes like Ama Gaon Ama Bikash Programme, Biju Yuva Vahini, Khushi Scheme, Mukhyamantri Chakshyu Jatna Karyakram – Sunetra, Nirmal Programme, Nidan Scheme, Nirmaya Scheme, Gangadhar Meher Sikhya Manakbrudhi Yojana, Akanshya, Mo School Campaign, Mukhyamantri Medha Bruti, Basudha Scheme and Green Mahanadi Mission. 
This budget is the final budget of Odisha govt. before the general elections with total outlay of Rs. 1.2 lakh crore. The size of Odisha Budget 2018-19 is 12.3 per cent more than annual budget of 2017-18.
All the newly announced schemes focuses on the overall development (health, education, infrastructure, farmers) of the state especially on the rural areas. The state govt. will also focus on the important schemes as announced in the Union Budget 2018-19



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Ama Ghare LED Light Karyakram
Under this scheme, all the poor households in the state will get 4 LED lights / bulbs absolutely free of cost. These LED bulbs will light up the houses of the poor families who are unable to purchase LED’s or are using other bulbs. Moreover, these LED bulbs are energy efficient and will also reduces the electricity bills of people belonging to economically weaker sections. 
Odisha govt. budget this year is a pro poor budget with focus on raising the living standards of BPL families. Under this Ama Ghare LED Light Karyakram, the state govt. has allocated Rs. 125 crore.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

List of New Schemes & Budgetary Allocation
Odisha Budget 2018-19 has introduced new schemes for Health, Education, Agriculture, Infrastructure Development, Housing for Poor and ensuring water supply. The important schemes along with their budgetary allocation are as follows:-

Health – There is a total allocation of 6160 crore for Mission Health. New Schemes for Health are as follows:-

Mukhyamantri Chakshyu Jatna Karyakram – SUNETRA : This is a universal eye health care programme with an outlay of Rs 682 crore for upcoming 5 years. Out of this allocated amount, govt. will spend Rs. 87 crore during 2018-19.
Khushi Scheme – Odisha govt. will provide free sanitary napkins to all the adolescent girls under Khushi Programme. The state govt. has allocated Rs. 50 crore to provide sanitary pads for maintenance of menstrual hygiene among adolescent girls and women.
Nirmal Programme – To upgrade standards of ancillary services in health care.
Nidan Scheme – The state govt. has also announced to provide free diagnostics services to all the people.
Mukhya Mantri Swasthya Seva Mission – To develop infrastructure for providing quality health services with total allocation of Rs. 700 crore.
Nirmaya Scheme – Odisha govt. has allocated Rs. 304 crore for this free drug distribution scheme.


Odisha Budget 2018-19 Health Schemes
Education / Youth Empowerment – The state govt. has made the highest allocation of Rs. 19,678 crore for education and skill development.

Gangadhar Meher Sikhya Manakbrudhi Yojana – Under this scheme, govt. will provide free uniforms, text books, shoes, bicycles to all the students studying in various govt. schools.
Odisha Adarsh Vidyalayas – Odisha govt. has allocated Rs. 250 crore for the establishment of new Odisha Adarsh Vidyalayas.
Akanshya Scheme – Construction of hostels for girls belonging to Scheduled Tribe (ST) Category with total allocation of Rs. 200 crore.
Mo School Campaign – Under this scheme, govt. will provide Rs. 1 lakh to each best performing school in a given block. The total allocation for this Mo School Abhiyan is Rs. 50 crore.
Mukyamantri Medha Bruti – The state govt. has allocated Rs. 20 crore to provide one time scholarship to 40,000 class 10th students in the state.
Hostels for OBC / SEBC Students – Govt. will construct 100 hostels for OBC / SEBC Candidates.
Biju Yuva Vahini – To nurture leadership and social traits among youths, govt. has allocated Rs. 90 crore.


Odisha Budget 2018-19 Education Schemes
Agriculture – Odisha govt. has allocated Rs 16,765 crore for Agriculture and Allied sectors which is around 12.3 % of the total budget share.

Ama Gaon Ama Bikash – Govt. allocates Rs. 1250 crore for new Ama Gaon Ama Bikash Programme. Additional outlay for the welfare of farmers is Rs. 250 crore.
Ama Ghare LED Light Karyakram – 4 LED Lights to each poor household in villages under Ama Ghare LED Light Karyakram with total outlay of Rs. 125 crore.
Green Mahanadi Mission – To protect rivers to ensure water availability and improved livelihood, govt. has allocated Rs. 30 crore.
Prabati Giri Mega Lift Irrigation Scheme – To improve the conditions of farmers, govt. will provide Rs. 1802 crore for this scheme.
Integrated Watershed Management – For this scheme, there is an allocation of Rs. 155 crore. Rs. 100 crore to procure and distribute quality seeds to farmers, another Rs. 100 crore to ensure adequate fertilisers, Rs. 104 crore under National Horticulture Mission and Rs. 602 crore for soil conservation.
Crop Insurance – Odisha govt. has allocated Rs. 400 crore as state’s share in the premium of crop insurance.
Farm Mechanization Scheme – This scheme will boost productivity of farmers with total outlay of Rs. 450 crore. In addition to this, govt. will provide Rs. 200 crore to improve the efficiency of water and also to ensure irrigation to even the last mile farmer through field channels.
Odisha Millet Mission – To promote production of Millets and Bajra in Rain Deficit Regions, govt. allocates Rs. 100 crore in Odisha Budget 2018-19.
Loans to Farmers – Govt. will provide low cost credit loans to farmers of Rs. 50,000 @ 1% and above @ 2% to around 25 lakh farmers.


Odisha Budget 2018-19 Agriculture Schemes
Safe Drinking Water – To ensure supply of safe drinking water, govt. will invest Rs. 3000 crore in Piped Water Supply Projects.

Basudha Scheme – To ensure adequate water supply in rural and urban areas, govt. has allocated Rs. 1350 crore for Basudha Scheme.
Mega Water Supply Project for Berhampur – Govt. will set up this mega water supply project with total allocation of Rs. 489 crore.
Odisha govt. will ensure safe supply of drinking water to 645 villages in 7 districts with an outlay of Rs. 550 crore. Moreover, govt. will also ensure adequate water supply to 691 mining affected villages in 8 districts with an outlay of Rs. 450 crore.


Odisha Budget 2018-19 Drinking Water Schemes

To promote “Housing for All”, govt. has allocated Rs. 3,259 crore for Biju Pucca Ghar Scheme. In addition to this, govt. has allocated Rs. 22,684 crore for the welfare of people belonging to SC / ST and other backward classes. This is a pro-poor and balanced budget focusing on fostering equitable growth and inclusion through new schemes like Ama Gaon Ama Bikash, Ama Ghare LED Light Karyakram etc. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
