
The state govt. of Odisha has launched a new initiative named Bhoochetana on 9 April 2018. This Soil Health Card Scheme will include soil health mapping, info. on essential nutrients and will also provide financial support to the farmers. Accordingly soil card scheme is a 3 years agreement to reach around 6.1 million hectares of agricultural land in 30 districts. Soil Health Scheme is going to benefit around 4.35 million farmers in Odisha.
Agricultural department, Odisha and International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) has signed a Memorandum of Agreement for this purpose. Earlier, Karnataka govt. has implemented this scheme where it shows excellent results.
The primary objective is to increase productivity of farmers and to bring green revolution in Odisha. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Bhoochetana – Odisha Soil Health Card Scheme
Bhoochetana signifies “revival of land” and includes various practices like soil health mapping, providing nutrient recommendations to farmers. This initiative was firstly launched in Karnataka where it changes and completely transforms the life of 4.75 million poor farmers. Moreover this soil health scheme also results in significant increase in the crop production (20-66%) and net benefits around 350 million dollars.
Odisha Soil Health Scheme target to cover 6.1 million hectares in 30 districts. Bhoochetana will follow a scientific and innovative approach to achieve its targets. All the reports of soil analysis, nutrients and other treatment practices will be shared with the farmers.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The state gov. will also implement other improved practices for cultivation like local seed banks, land and water management practices and capacity building initiatives for farmers. Soil Health Card Scheme will focus on both the increase in productivity through judicious usage of inputs along with welfare of farmers like ensuring MSP and financial assistance.
Farmers can also opt for diversification to ensure food security in the state. New Soil Management practices will help in retaining of valuable nutrients in the farmland and restore the soil health. Bhoochetana Scheme will reduce the risk factor involved in farming and overall cultivation cost will also get reduced. For more details, visit the official website icrisat.org





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
