
Odisha state government has launched SAMPURNA (Shishu Abond Matru Mrutyuhara Purna Nirakaran Abhiyan) Scheme to provide financial assistance for pregnant women of the state. This scheme will provide Rs. 1000 as transportation cost to reach the hospital at time delivery to the pregnant women who are living in inaccessible areas. 
The objective of SAMPURNA scheme is to bring down the death rate of the new born Child (Infant Mortality Rate) and also of the Mother (Mother Mortality Rate) during pregnancy across the state. Therefore, all the pregnant women from the inaccessible regions who reaches the hospital for delivery by arranging vehicles spending their own money, will receive Rs. 1,000 as the transportation cost.
Latest Update (on 30 January 2019) – Odisha SAMMPURNA Yojana 2019



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The scheme will be applicable only for pregnant women who are living in inaccessible areas where the ambulances of government hospitals (102 / 108) and other four vehicle hospitals can not reach. The scheme is expected to provide benefits to about 60,000 pregnant women every year.
Salient Features of Odisha SAMPURNA Scheme
Below are some of the salient features of Odisha SAMPURNA scheme


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


The pregnant woman will receive financial assistance of Rs. 1000 from state government.
This scheme is only be applicable for women who are living in inaccessible regions to provide transportation cost to reach hospital.
The intention of government is to reduce Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) and Mother Mortality Rate (MMR) during pregnancy.
The Odisha government is planning to spend Rs. 6 crore on this scheme.
 This scheme will cover a total of 7853 villages across 30 districts of Odisha as soon as possible.
Rs. 1000 will be transferred directly into the bank account of beneficiary through DBT.

The state govt. realizes that the large number of mishappening occur due to the pregnant women being carried on shoulders or walking to reach the hospital for delivery. This happens due to government ambulances and other four vehicles not reaching the spot on time. Therefore, the government has decided to provide Rs. 1000 to each beneficiary through DBT to arrange for the transportation.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
