
Odisha govt. has launched a new Health Insurance Scheme for Journalists. This welfare scheme will be launched in the name of Gopabandhu Sambadika Swasthya Bima Yojana. Under this scheme, all the working journalists will get an insurance coverage of Rs. 2 lakh per annum. This scheme will be operational from 1 June 2018. 
Initially, around 3233 journalists from different media groups will get this Insurance Coverage. Moreover, atleast 5 members of family of Journalists can avail the scheme benefits.
This insurance coverage will be applicable for cashless treatment in all Public / Private hospitals. Journalists can avail free treatment upto Rs. 2 Lakh through Health Insurance Card.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Odisha Gopabandhu Sambadika Swasthya Bima Yojana
The important features and highlights of this scheme for Media Persons in Odisha are as follows:-
Gopabandhu Sambadika Swasthya Bima Yojana is a welfare scheme for media persons in the state.
In the 1st phase, this Health Insurance Scheme will cover 3,233 working journalists.
All the working media persons will get an insurance coverage of upto Rs. 2 lakh per year.
At-least 5 Members of Journalists family will be covered under Odisha Health Insurance Scheme 2018.
This scheme has been launched to counter injuries / illness faced by the journalists while performing their duties. People from Media groups work in adverse conditions to provide correct information & bring out truth. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

A delegation of Bhubaneswar-based journalists met CM Patnaik and thanked him for this scheme. This delegation also drew the attention of CM to problems faced by scribes while performing their duties. So, they also demanded a New Pension Scheme for Journalists.
Health Insurance Scheme 2018 Card for Journalists
All the journalists can avail the benefits of Gopabandhu Sambadika Swasthya Bima Yojana with the use of a new Health Insurance Card. All the media persons (scribes) can obtain their Health Card from District Information and Public Relations Officer (DIPRO) in their respective districts.
List of DIPRO Officers – Complete List containing the name and other details for all 30 districts can be obtained through the link – http://www.rtiodisha.gov.in/Departments/25
CM Naveen Patnaik also interacted with journalists after the announcement of Gopabandhu Sambadika Swasthya Bima Yojana. Media is the 4th Pillar of the Indian Democracy and it is necessary to ensure that it is maintained. Chief Minister encourages Journalists and also appreciate their efforts for their contribution to society. CM also makes commitment for free press and welfare of journalists.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
