
Odisha cabinet has approved the Krushak Assistance for Livelihood and Income Augmentation (KALIA) Scheme for farmers. KALIA Scheme 2019-20 will provide financial, livelihood, cultivation, support & insurance facilities to farmers. The state govt. will implement this scheme with an outlay of Rs. 10,000 crore.
The state govt. will provide an assistance of Rs. 10,000 per family at the rate of Rs. 5,000 each for kharif and rabi seasons. This amount would be provided as financial assistance for taking up cultivation. All the farmers will have complete independence to take up interventions according to their needs.
Latest Update – Odisha Kalia Scheme List of Beneficiaries (District / Gram Panchayat Wise)
Latest Update – Kalia Scheme Green / Red Form Download



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Kalia is progressive, inclusive and will make direct attack on poverty by way of massive investment in this sector. This scheme would provide benefits to reach the needy person through direct benefit transfer (DBT) mode. 
Odisha KALIA Scheme 2019-20 for Farmers
The complete features and highlights of this scheme are as follows:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Support for Cultivation – Govt. will give Rs. 10,000 per family (Rs. 5,000 for kharif & Rs. 5,000 for Rabi) per season. Over 30 lakh small and marginal farmers of the state would be covered under this scheme. KALIA Scheme will cover 92% of the cultivators of the state. This assistance is for 5 crop seasons spanning three years from 2018-19 to 2021-22. This scheme would greatly benefit sharecroppers & actual cultivators as most of them owns very small land.
Support for Livelihood – Around 10 lakh landless agriculture households will also be supported with a unit cost of Rs. 12,500. This scheme would enable farmers to take up activities like small goat rearing, fishery kits, mushroom cultivation and beekeeping.
Financial Assistance – The state govt. will also provide financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 p.a per household for landless farmers who are too old, physically challenged or too sick to work. The assistance amount will enable farmers to take care of sustenance of those farmers who are unable to take up cultivation or avail livelihood options due to old age, disability, disease and other reasons. All the deserving families would be identified and selected by gram panchayats. Around 10 lakh families would be covered under this scheme for 2 years at cost of Rs. 1,000 crore.
Life Insurance Cover – The state govt. will provide Rs. 2 lakh life insurance cover and Rs. 2 lakh additional personal accident cover to both cultivators and landless agricultural labourers covering around 57 lakh households.
Interest Free Crop Loans – All the crop loans upto Rs. 50,000 would also be interest free.

Krushak Assistance for Livelihood and Income Augmentation (KALIA) Scheme would accelerate agricultural prosperity and reduce poverty and will be implemented with Rs. 10,000 crore. This amount will be spent over a time period of 3 years till 2020-21. 
The farmers will have complete independence to take up interventions like of purchase of inputs like seeds, fertilizers, pesticides and labour fees.

Odisha Cabinet headed by CM @Naveen_Odisha announced #KALIA scheme to empower small, marginal & landless farmers as well as landless labourers. The ₹10,000 crore scheme covers 92% of cultivators, loanee and non-loanee, share-croppers & landless labourers #OdishaEmpowersFarmers pic.twitter.com/cfNUcKaGAB
— CMO Odisha (@CMO_Odisha) December 21, 2018

The state government will review the scheme in 2021 and make necessary changes if required. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
