
Delhi Government is planning to launch an Aam Aadmi Health Insurance Scheme in the capital city to cover over 40 lakh families. Named as Aam Aadmi Swasthya Bima Yojana, the scheme will be launched to provide health insurance cover to people below certain income level.
Aam Aadmi Swasthya Bima Yojana will be launched for the 4 years in first phases to cover an estimated 40 Lakh families in the capital city. The health department of Delhi Government has opened a Request For Qualification (RFQ) to shortlist insurance companies who can bid for the scheme till end of May, in the first stage of screening. 6 companies will be shortlisted in the first stage to bid in the second stage.
Named as Aam Aadmi Swasthya Bima Yojana, the scheme will cover only the families falling below a certain income threshold. The families above that threshold can also apply for the scheme if they can pay the premium decided by the Government.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Treatment Center Coverage Under Aam Aadmi Swasthya Bima Yojana
Delhi government will include treatment at all government hospitals under the insurance scheme. The scheme will also include treatment at identified and empaneled private hospitals. According to the a senior health department official, the government is expecting a package of at least 1700 health institutions under the scheme.
Delhi Dialogue Commission (DDC) came up with the provision of launching a new health insurance scheme in the capital city to fil the gaps in coverage of existing such schemes including the Delhi Arogya Nidhi and Rashtria Swasthya Bima Yojana.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

According to the officials, Aam Aadmi Swasthya Bima Yojana is expected to cost about Rs. 500 crores annually to the Delhi Government.
Aam Aadmi Swasthya Bima Yojana – Disease Coverage
The government is looking to include several diseases under the scheme including cancer and neurological diseases, cardiac problems or organ transplants. These treatments are cost intensive and are often partial assistance is included under the existing health insurance schemes.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
