
Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal launches Mukhyamantri Septic Tank Safai Yojana to help people in waste management and ensuring safety of sanitation workers. Delhi Jal Board (DJB) would deploy 80 trucks along with trained staff to ensure free cleaning and maintenance of septic tanks in unauthorized colonies. People depend on manual scavengers for cleaning of tanks which is an illegal act and now govt. will clean septic tanks for free.
Delhi CM Septic Tank Safai Yojana aims to extend big helping hand to millions of people living in unauthorized colonies where sewer lines are yet to be laid. The scheme will help in collecting waste from septic tanks of illegal colonies and ensure safe disposal of waste in sewage treatment plants. 
This scheme will ensure safety of people as trained staff with all safety equipment would be used for work of septic tank cleaning.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Delhi CM Septic Tank Safai Yojana 2019
There are around 45 lakh citizens living in authorised and unauthorised colonies of Delhi which do not have sewer pipelines and depend on septic tanks. The process to install sewage pipelines across all unauthorized colonies is going on and now it is important to ensure cleanliness of the septic tanks through safe means. So to achieve this objective, govt. has launched Mukhyamantri Septic Tank Safai Yojana 2019 in Delhi. 
The state govt. plans to achieve 3 objectives with this scheme – collection of waste from septic tanks in colonies, ensure safe disposal of waste in sewage treatment plants and deployment of trained staff with safety equipment for cleaning septic tanks.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Need for Mukhyamantri Septic Tank Safai Yojana in Delhi
Delhi Jal Board is installing sewer pipelines everywhere and various colonies have already got sewer pipelines in past few years. But residents of colonies which do not have sewer pipelines are using septic tanks. Private agencies involved in maintenance and tank cleaning does not have valid licence to do so. These agencies carry cleaning activities in unauthorized and illegal manner and do not provide safety equipment to workers & put lives at risk.
The waste collected from septic tanks is disposed in drains across the city which causes groundwater contamination & water pollution. In order to tackle these issues, govt. has started Mukhyamantri Septic Tank Safai Yojana. The state govt. will clear tendering process for CM Septic Tank Safai Yojana within next month. Around 80 trucks would be procured by Delhi Jal Board. All the residents of colonies can call on phone number to clean septic tanks.
A truck will be sent to location and waste collected from tanks would be delivered to sewage treatment plants. Residents of Delhi can procure free of cost services in legal and authorized manner to ensure cleanliness in Delhi. Yamuna pollution would be reduced and this scheme will also result in minimizing deaths due to manual scavenging.
Out of 1797 unauthorized colonies, around 430 colonies have sewer pipelines and installation of sewer pipelines is in process for 400 colonies. The remaining colonies are equipped with septic tanks and work for installing sewer pipelines is still in progress. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/arvind-kejriwal-announces-free-sewage-cleaning-scheme-in-unauthorised-colonies/articleshow/72068606.cms
SAVE AS PDF
