


Table of Contents

ITI Delhi Admissions 2017 Online ApplicationList of Documents Required for Online RegistrationList of Delhi Govt’ ITI’s
ITI Delhi admissions for 2017 session are starting from 29th May and the interested candidates can apply online for taking admissions using the official website at www.itidelhiadmissions.nic.in. Delhi Government has issued notice for admissions in Delhi Government’s Industrial Training Institutes (ITI).
Online registrations for ITI Delhi admissions 2017 would open on 29th May and the last date of registration would be 15th June 2017. The verification of applications and documents would start from 16th June.
ITI Delhi Admissions 2017 Online Application
Online application forms for admission in ITI in Delhi for the academic year 2017-18 are being invited from 8th and 10th pass interested candidates. ITI’s in Delhi are offering various certificate level engineering and non-engineering trades / courses of 2 and 4 semester duration. Online application forms through itidelhiadmissions.nic.in can be filled for taking admissions in Industrial Training Institutes/Basic Training Institutes for the academic year 2017-18.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

To apply online for admission in Delhi ITI, please visit the official website at below link
www.itidelhiadmissions.nic.in
Important Dates


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});



Event/Task
Date


Start Date of Registration
29 May 2017


Last Date of Registration
15 June 2017


Start Date of Verification
16 June 2017


Choice Filling
27 June 2017


The candidates applying online are requested to read the instructions carefully before filling the application form. Registration fee of Rs. 200 is payable at the time of registration. Each candidate who fill the online registration form needs to visit any Govt. ITI for further verification of documents. Original documents along with their photocopies would be required for verification.
List of Documents Required for Online Registration
Candidates are advised to get their following documents ready for registration process
1. Mark-sheet (10th / 8th)
2. Caste Certificate (If any)
3. Other Relevant Documents
4. Aadhar Card
5. Bank Account Details
6. Credit card / Debit card / net banking etc for cashless registration
Download prospectus of ITI Delhi Admissions 2017 for more information about the admission process, institutes details and number of seats available using the link below.
Download Prospectus
The detailed step by step procedure for online registration is given at this link.
List of Delhi Govt’ ITI’s
Following is the list of 13 Co-ed ITI’s and 6 women ITI’s running under NCVT/SCVT in Delhi.


Name/Location of ITI
ITI Code


Co-Ed Institutes


Pusa, New Delhi
12


Arab-Ki-Sarai, Nizamuddin, New Delhi
13


Shahdra, Delhi
95


Sir CV Raman, Dheerpur, New Delhi
09


Malviya Nagar, New Delhi
17


Jail Road, New Delhi
64


Jahangir Puri, New Delhi
33


Nand Nagri, Delhi
93


HJ Bhabha, Mayur Vihar, Delhi
91


Ch. Braham Prakash, Jaffarpur, Delhi
48


Lala Hans Raj Gupta, Narela, Delhi
40


Veer Savarkar, BTC Pusa, New Delhi
12


Mangol Puri, Industrial Area, Delhi
83


Women Institutes


Jija Bai, Siri Fort, New Delhi
49


Savitri Bai Phule, Mori Gate, Delhi
06


Tilak Nagar, New Delhi
18


Vivek Vihar, Delhi
95


Hastsal, Delhi (Ext. Center of ITI Jail Road)
58


ITI for Women, Nandi Nagri (MSDP)
NA


Below are some of the salient features of Delhi ITI’s

Well equipped labs and workshops with latest tools and equipment as per the revised syllabus of DGET, Govt. of India
All round personality development by curricular and non curricular activities.
No tuition fee for the girls, SC, ST, PH and Orphan candidates.
Collaboration with companies like TATA, Maruti, Samsung, Jaguar, LG, IGL, Toyota, Daikin, Oriental Insurance, Siemens etc. for placement assistance.
Well experienced and dedicated faculty.
Various govt. scheme and scholarships available for deserving candidates.
Provision of railway concession/DTC buss passes and hostel for boys.

More details about the online application procedure in Delhi ITI can be found on the official website at itidelhiadmissions.nic.in or on the website of Delhi education department at tte.delhigovt.nic.in.
CONTENT SOURCE: Advertisement Published in TOI, 28th May.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
