
The state government of Delhi has announced that they will provide a tablet computer at free of cost for all teachers and principals in the national capital government schools. The distribution of tablet computers in schools will help to reduce the non-teaching burden.
The Delhi government will finance Rs. 50 crore to procure the tablets and computers for all the government schools. The digital gadgets will help the schools’ teachers by collecting the data of students’ attendance. In addition, teachers can send the direct message to parents by using the digital gadgets regarding the child’s attendance.
Accordingly, the tablet computer will be equipped with an Internet data card to provide the help of teachers in their work. Moreover, the education department is going to prepare a proposal to procure tablet computers for around 50,000 teachers and principals of the 1024 government schools across the Delhi.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Delhi government schools
By using the data of the education department, Delhi government has informed that the transition loss from Class X to Class XII has come down over the last years. As per data, in the year of 2013-14 stood at 62,158 but now it came down to 18,405 in 2016-17.
The distribution of tablet computers to teachers will start in the next two month. Besides syllabus training, the government is also considering to provide training to the teachers in many activities. These activities will correct the interaction mistake between teacher and student. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The distribution of tablet computer decision was taken in cabinet meeting because most teachers are complaining to the government that they are not providing enough time for teaching as they are engaged in data entry or management works including maintenance of attendance registers, preparation of students’ report cards, etc.
Therefore, Delhi government has decided to provide tablet computers to the teachers of all government schools. An internet data card also will be provided to the teachers so that they complete the required work online.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
