
Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana – Urban (PMAY-U), a flagship housing scheme of central government would soon be implemented in Delhi NCT. The Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation (HUPA) has signed an agreement with the state government of Delhi for implementation of PMAY in Delhi.
Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana in Delhi
Nearly two years after the launch of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, the government has resolved the key issues during a meeting with Delhi L-G Anil Baijal recently. Since the land ownership for most of the land in Delhi is hold by the central government under Delhi Development Authority while some lies with Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) which is under the Delhi government.
In recent meeting, it was decided that the MoU would be signed between MHUPA, DDA and DUSIB for the implementation of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana in Delhi. Under the MoA, is has been decided that the state would comply with some certain conditions which includes



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

– Amendments in Master Plan of Delhi for earmarking land for affordable housing.
– Single window time-bound clearances for layout approvals and building permissions.
Implementation of PMAY in Delhi
Delhi Development Authority (DDA) and Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) would act as the state nodal agencies for implementation of various components of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana – Urban in Delhi NCT.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The government has recently announced CLSS for MIG under which it is providing subsidy on housing loan to people belonging to MIG category. Earlier, the CLSS was applicable only for EWS and LIG categories.
Construction of over 18.75 Lakh affordable homes have been approved by the MHUPA under PMAY since its launch. Several state governments and urban local bodies are conducting demand surveys for the implementation of PMAY.
The applications for assessment of candidates under PMAY are also being invited through the official website of PMAY at pmaymis.gov.in. Interested candidates can visit the official website and fill the assessment form.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
