


Table of Contents

Online Applications for DDA Housing Scheme 2016DDA Housing Scheme 2016 – A BriefLocation of Flats in DDA Housing Scheme 2016
Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is all set to launch its much awaited DDA housing scheme 2016 near Diwali. The authority would be offering about 12K flats for the EWS, LIG, and MIG categories across the capital city.
Each housing scheme of Delhi Development Authority is highly anticipated by the home seekers. A lot of people shows there interest by applying for the scheme offered by DDA. In fact, DDA received more than 9 lakh applications for its housing scheme 2014 for allotment of about 25K flats.
The authority invited the applications through both offline and online modes in 2014 scheme but this time, the authority to go entirely online. According to the media reports, the authority may come up with the online only option for application for DDA housing scheme 2016.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Online Applications for DDA Housing Scheme 2016
The online application process is being adopted by the authority to bring in more transparency & efficiency to the whole process. All the details such as application fee, procedure, eligibility criteria, modes of payment and scheme brochure would be available online.
The authority is also expected to raise the registration fee amount this time. According to the reports, the authority may require LIG & MIG applicants to pay Rs. 3 Lakh and 5 Lakh respectively compared to just Rs. 1 Lakh in previous scheme. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

DDA Housing Scheme 2016 – A Brief
The DDA housing scheme 2016 may be launched in the first week of October with a total of about 12000 flats on offer. However, the final decision on the launch date would be taken in a meeting of senior DDA officials on 23rd September. 
The flats would be 1BHK and 2BHK type. The scheme is also expected to include some of the surrendered flats of 2014 scheme. Majority of the flats in 2016 housing scheme of Delhi Development Authority would be of the one bedroom type.
Of total, about 90% of the flats would be offered to the Lower Income Group (LIG) category while the rest would be for the MIG category. There would not be any flats on offer for the higher income group in the 2016 housing scheme.
Location of Flats in DDA Housing Scheme 2016
Almost all the LIG flats being offered in the upcoming scheme are from the old constructions and located in Rohini, Dwarka, Narela, Vasant Kunj and Jasola.
The cost of flats in 2016 scheme is expected to be higher compares to last scheme. The cost of LIG flats would be between Rs. 18-20 Lakh while MIG flats would be priced between Rs. 60 to 70 Lakh.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
