


Table of Contents

DDA Housing Scheme 2017 LaunchFlats in DDA Housing Scheme 2017DDA Housing Scheme 2017 Application Forms
Delhi Development Authority has almost decided the launch date of DDA housing scheme 2017, the scheme will now be launched in the end of May of beginning of June. According to the reports in HT, the authority has completed all the formalities of the scheme and the file is before the LG for final approval.
DDA Housing Scheme 2017 Launch
The scheme would be launched after the LG gives its final approval during a meeting with DDA officials to be held in 3rd or last week of this month. DDA housing scheme 2017 launch date has been extended a few times due to some other factors including Delhi Municipal Elections in April 2017 and demonetization in November 2016.
The authority is offering a total of about 13000 flats under is 2017 housing scheme out of which only 3509 flats are 2 BHK for Middle Income Group while rest are 1 BHK Lower Income Group flats or Janta flats. DDA this time has decided not to put a lock in period on the selling of flats which means the owner would be free to sell his/her flat anytime.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

But, DDA has also decided to forfeit the registration amount of the lucky draw winner if he/she wish to surrender the flat or cancel the allotment. The lucky draw winners would have the option to either buy the flat or leave the registration fee which is Rs. 1 lakh for LIG and Janta flats and Rs. 2 lakh for MIG and HIG flats.
Most of the 1BHK flats being offered under the scheme are ones which were surrendered by the winners in 2014 housing scheme of DDA. Once the scheme is launched, people would be given a time of about one month to apply for the scheme. Thereafter, the scrutiny of applications would about take one month before the announcement of winners in lucky draw.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The possessions of flats under DDA housing scheme 2017 would be given in September-October as the unfinished civil work and services in the colonies will be completed around that time.
Flats in DDA Housing Scheme 2017
Below are the details of flats being offered under DDA housing scheme 2017.
13,148 – Total no. of flats
11,671 – LIG/one-bedroom flat
79 – HIG
398 – MIG
563 – EHS (Expandable Housing Scheme)
437 – Janta
Flats being offered are spread across Jasola, Sarita Vihar, Narela, Rohini, Paschim Vihar, Jahangirpuri, Bindapur, Pitampura, Loknayakpuram, Dwarka, Dilshad Garden, Sukhdev Vihar, Mukherjee Nagar.
DDA Housing Scheme 2017 Application Forms
The application forms of DDA housing scheme 2017 would be available at more than 450 branches of 5 private sector banks and 3 public sector banks across the country. The detailed list of bank branches for DDA housing scheme application forms would be available only after the scheme is launched.
Application forms may also be invited through online mode this year through the official website of DDA at www.dda.org.in.
Complete details of the application procedure, eligibility criteria, flats and other information would be available once the scheme is launched.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
