
The state government of Delhi has launched a web portal for the loan guarantee scheme and scholarship for the meritorious students of Delhi. The student who is undergoing any undergraduate courses in state university colleges of Delhi would be eligible to apply the scheme. The interested candidate can make their registration by going to studentloan.delhi.gov.in
However, Delhi govt. has launched Merit cum Means scholarship scheme earlier in the state with an aim of providing the scholarship to the students from poor families. This is a fee waiver scheme that provides a scholarship for the students who are interested in pursuing higher studies. 
Under the scheme, a student will get financial help to the poor students and help them achieve their life goals. The student can apply for the Merit-cum-Means Income Linked Financial Assistance Scheme for the academic year 2017 – 18 till 18-12-2017.Below given the registration process for the scheme at studentloan.delhi.gov.in



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Loan Guarantee Scheme and Scholarship Online Registration
 Below given the steps to make their registration for the scholarship scheme:-

The interested student has to visit at studentloan.delhi.gov.in
On the homepage, student has to click the “Apply for Student Loan under Higher Education in Delhi” or directly click this link
Next page will open, here click the “Service” tab in the column.
After clicking, various scheme forms will get displayed on the screen at e-District Delhi
Here go to Merit-cum-Means Income Linked Financial Assistance Scheme for making registration or directly click this link
Below given the snapshot that would help to identify the scheme.
Merit Cum Means Income Linked
Now click the “Merit-cum-Means Income Linked Financial Assistance Scheme of Delhi Higher Education Aid Trust” and “Modified Higher Education and Skill Development Guarantee Scheme” to make the registration
If the candidate is an existing user, make login using “User Id” and “Password” to apply for the scheme. However, fresh candidates can now make registration by entering their details including Aadhar card number or Voter id card number. 

Moreover, Delhi govt. has earlier launched Education Loan Guarantee Scheme to Delhi Students for the students who are interested to study outside the state in any part of the country. Under this scheme, students are encouraged to enroll in any colleges and universities outside the Delhi.
Loan Guarantee Scheme Scholarship


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});






(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
