
The state government of Delhi has launched Chunauti Scheme for primary class students (Class I to V). Earlier, this scheme was launched for students in Class 6 to 9. This scheme will help in correcting learning disparities among the students.
Under the Chunauti Scheme, all the students from the primary class will be segregated. The segregation of the students will be based on their learning abilities. The selected student will be given special classes in government and municipal schools.
Recently, a meeting was held in Delhi during which state advisory council for education has taken this decision. This decision was based on the success of Chunauti scheme in Classes 6 to 9. This scheme will improve the learning levels among students.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Chunauti Scheme for Students
The education department will organize a test to read, write Hindi and English and solve mathematical problems. On the based of test, students will be segregated for the benefits of the scheme. As per the assessment, it was found that 74% of 2,01,997 children studying in class 6th could not read a paragraph from their own Hindi textbooks and 46% could not read a Hindi story of Class 2 level.
The state advisory council for education has decided to rank private and government schools of the state. The rank will be given on the basis of many parameters including academics, sports activities, cleanliness, exam results and extracurricular activities. The ranking of schools will be overlooked by the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR).


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The government will conduct a door-to-door survey with the help of Anganwadi workers to compile data on students who are dropped from the schools. Moreover, the government would find some volunteers who would help in ascertain those students who are out-of-school in their respective areas. They will help in enrollment of those students in the school.
Moreover, the government will launch a toll free helpline number to get the information about the students. In addition, the special training will be given to principals and teachers on how to behave with the students who are coming from economically weaker sections (EWS).





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
