


Table of Contents

How to Apply/Register Online at edudel.nic.inList of Delhi Govt. SchoolsList of Documents Required at the time of Admission
Online application/registration forms for non-plan admission in 6th and 9th class in Delhi Government school are now open and can be done through the official website at edudel.nic.in. Online application for admission in 6th and 9th standard can be filled from 3:00 PM on 19 April 2017. Earlier the start date of application was 17th April but was re-scheduled.
The last date to register online for 6th and 9th class admissions is 29th April 2017. The online admissions process was rescheduled due to maintenance of the server.
Latest Update – All the students who wishes to get admission in Class 9th in delhi govt. schools can make registration and fill the application form through the link – Delhi Admission 2018-19 for Class 9th (Schools of Excellence) and Class 6th to 9th Admission 2018-19 in Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalayas (RPVV)



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

How to Apply/Register Online at edudel.nic.in
Below is the step by step procedure to fill the online application or registration form for admission in 6th and 9th standard in Delhi Government Schools.
STEP 1: The applicants first need to visit the official website of the Delhi Education Department Website at edudel.nic.in.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

STEP 2: Click on the “Govt. School Admission” link from the main menu.
STEP 3: On the next page, click on the first link which says “Online Application Form for Admission in Govt. Schools in Classes VI & IX” or directly click this link.
STEP 4: On the next page, read all the instructions carefully and then click “Next” button at the bottom of the page.
STEP 5: On the next page, an online application form similar to below would open. Fill all the mandatory details in the application form and click “Next” and complete the next step.
edudel.nic.in – Online Registration Form for Admission in 6th and 9th Class
STEP 6: Take a printout of the application form as acknowledgement which will be required at the time of admission.
In the online application form, parents can select up to 5 government schools as their preferences. The admission will be allotted to the student on the basis of the seats available in the preferred schools. Once a seat is allotted, admission process can be completed by verifying the documents at the school premises.
Age Criteria for admissions
Class 6th – Completed 10 years but less than 12 years as on 31-03-2017
Class 9th – Completed 13 years but less than 15 years as on 31-03-2017
Important Dates
Start of Online Registrations: 19 April, 3:00 PM
End of Online Registrations: 29 April
Declaration of List of Selected Students: 02 May (Tuesday)
Submission of Documents for Admission: 03 May to 08 May 2017
Following details would have to be provided by the parents in the online application form
a. Personal details like name, father’s name, mother’s name, and residential address.
b. Aadhar number of child.
c. Bank account details of child including account number, bank name, branch and IFSC.
d. Date of birth of child.
List of Delhi Govt. Schools
The cluster wise list of schools for admission in 6th and 9th standard can be found on the official website using the below links.
Govt. Schools for Online Admissions to Class VI
Govt. Schools for Online Admissions to Class IX
List of Documents Required at the time of Admission

One passport size photograph of child.
For Class 6th – School leaving certificate of a recognized school OR original date of birth certificate issued by MCD or any other local body OR an undertaking by the parents regarding the date of birth as per the Part-B of application form.
for class 9th – School leaving certificate of a recognized school.
Mark sheet of previous class passed (5th for 6th class and 8th for 9th class admission).
Any one of the following documents as residence proof.

BPL or Ration card issued in the name of parents having the name of child.
Domicile certificate of child or parents.
Voter ID card of father or mother.
Electricity/MTNL Landline/Water bill in the name of parents.
Bank passbook in the name of child or parents.
Aadhar card of child or Parents.
Passport in the name of any of the parents or child.
Driving license of parents.


Certificate of caste (In case of SC/ST/OBC).
Certificate of disability.

The detailed procedure of admission can be found on the official website at the below link.
http://edudel.nic.in/upload/upload_2017_18/475_78_dt_28032017.pdf.
Official Website: www.edudel.nic.in.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
