
बिहार वोटर लिस्ट 2020 (PDF) अब सीईओ की आधिकारिक वेबसाइट ceobihar.nic.in पर उपलब्ध है, नयी मतदाता सूची में अपना नाम अपनी जानकारी या EPIC नंबर के आधार पर खोजें और वोटर ID कार्ड डाउनलोड करें

Table of Contents

CEO Bihar Voter List 2020 (PDF Electoral Roll) DownloadBihar Voter ID Card Download OnlinePanchayat Voter List PDF – State Election Commission of BiharBihar Voters Search in E-Roll (Panchayat / Nagar Palika) Name Check in CEO Bihar Nagar Palika Voters List With Name and Other DetailsVoter Id Card Helpline Number BiharReferences
CEO Bihar Voter List 2020 PDF Electoral Roll are available to download at ceobihar.nic.in. People can now search their name in E-Roll or the online voter list and can even download their voters ID card. Election commission has announced to conduct assembly elections in Bihar state in October 2020 as the term of current Nitish govt. is ending. Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Bihar is responsible for successful conduct of elections across the state. CEO publishes and update Bihar Voter List PDF (Electoral Roll) before elections. Accordingly, people can find their name in the CEO Bihar Final Voters List 2020 with photo and can Download Voter ID Card before elections at sec.bihar.gov.in or ceobihar.nic.in.
CEO department of Bihar is frequently updating its voter id card database and the last update was on 7 February 2020. People can check their name in the District Wise / Panchayat Wise voter list of Bihar along with their photo. As the assembly election are coming closer, citizens of Bihar can register online and add their name for Voter ID Card to get Right to Vote in the next elections to be held in Oct month to elect 243 assembly constituency members.
Moreover, people can download the entire Voter List PDF file (Panchayat / Nagar Palika Wise) or can directly find their name in the Electoral Roll (Voter List) of Bihar. People can perform manual searching in the CEO Voter List PDF. In addition to this, people can adopt a hassle free process and check their names online, as the online process makes things easier.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

CEO Bihar Voter List 2020 (PDF Electoral Roll) Download
The complete procedure to search and download the Electoral Roll / Panchayat-Wise Voters List is specified as follows:-
Step 1: Firstly go to the official website of the Office of the Chief Electoral Officer of Bihar at http://ceobihar.nic.in/Step 2: Scroll down the page at the end of which ‘Important Links‘ section is present. Here applicants can click at the “Search in E-Roll” link as shown here or directly click http://ceobihar.nic.in/searchinroll.html
CEO Bihar Official Website
Step 3: Upon clicking above mentioned link, a new “Search Electoral in Roll” page will open at the ceobihar website as shown below:-
ceobihar Search Electoral in PDF E-Roll
Step 4: Accordingly, a new Bihar Final Roll PDF or CEO Bihar Voter List 2020 download page will open as shown below. People can even click the direct link http://ele.bihar.gov.in/pdfsearch/ to open the same page as shown below.
Ele Bihar Final Roll Publication Page
Step 5: Here people can select the assembly segment, part number and enter the captcha as shown and then click at “View” button.Step 6: Afterwards, the CEO Bihar Voter List 2020 Final PDF Electoral Roll assembly constituency wise will appear:- 
CEO Bihar Voter List 2020 PDF Electoral Roll
People can download this complete CEO Bihar Voter List 2020 (PDF Electoral Roll) for their respective assembly constituency. 
In the downloaded PDF Voter List 2020 of Bihar, candidates have to search their name manually. Note down the serial number (matdaata parchi) to caste your important vote in October 2020 for election of your assembly constituency member. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Bihar Voter ID Card Download Online
In order to download Bihar Voter ID Card online, applicants can go to the “Search Electoral in Roll” page as mentioned in Step 3 above. Here applicants can click at the second option namely “Search E-Roll” or directly click at https://electoralsearch.in/ to open the name find page.
Bihar Voter ID Card Download Online
Here people can find their name online in CEO Bihar Voter List 2020 either by their details or through their Electoral Photo Identity Card (EPIC) number. People can then save their details and can download their Bihar Voter ID Card online.
Panchayat Voter List PDF – State Election Commission of Bihar
Similar to the above mentioned process, all the candidates can also download the Panchayat Voter List published by the State Election Commission of Bihar. The direct link to download the Bihar Panchayat Voters List 2020 is given below:-
http://sec.bihar.gov.in/SearchInFinalPdf.aspxBihar Panchayat Wise Electoral Roll Final PDF Download page will appear as follows:-
SEC Bihar Panchayat Voter List 2020
Here candidates have to enter name of the District, Block, Panchayat, Ward and then have to click at the “Download” button to download the Bihar Panchayat Final Electoral Roll (PDF). Then candidates can manually find their name in the Panchayat Voter List with Photo. For Bihar Nagar Palika Voter List PDF, click the link – http://sec.bihar.gov.in/USearchInFFinalPdf.aspx
Bihar Voters Search in E-Roll (Panchayat / Nagar Palika) 
In the previous procedures first you had to download complete list of PDF then you were able to find your name in that list. But if you want to find name in voter list bihar online without downloading the Voter List Final PDF, then you have to follow these steps below:-
Firstly, go to the same official website sec.bihar.gov.inClick over “Search in E-Roll” drop down menu option then click “Panchayat” link.Direct Link – http://sec.bihar.gov.in/SearchInRollFinal.aspxA new screen to search Name in Final Electoral Roll Online in Voters List will be displayed as below:-
Bihar Name Find Voter ID Card Download Online
Fill all required Details like – District, Block, Panchayat, Ward, Voter ID, Name, Relative Name, and enter CaptchaAfter entering correct details your voter id card detail will be shown which any person can easily download to caste their vote.
All the candidates can search their name online in the Panchayat Wise Voter List Bihar and check whether their name exists in that list. If not, then candidates can apply to add their name in Bihar Electoral Roll (Final Voters List) and get new Voter ID Card.
Name Check in CEO Bihar Nagar Palika Voters List With Name and Other Details
Candidates can directly search their name in the electoral roll using their name and other details through the link given below. All the procedures to find name in voter card list bihar “Nagarpalika wise”are same as above mentioned in “Panchayat wise” section or you can directly go there by clicking this link:-
http://sec.bihar.gov.in/USearchInRollFinal.aspxAfter clicking the link, you will see this screen as shown below:-
Find Name Electoral Roll Name Details
Here candidates can enter their details like: District, Block, ULB, Ward, Voter ID, Name, Relative Name, Enter Captcha and click on the “View” button to fetch their complete voter card details.
Moreover, all those people whose name does not appear in the list don’t need to worry. They can make online registration for Bihar Voter id card and download their Voter ID Card.
Voter Id Card Helpline Number Bihar
Contact our common Service Portal Help-Line no. for further InformationOffice of the Chief Electoral Officer with Phone No. – (0612)-2506826, 2506917 and E-mail ID – [email protected] or [email protected]
References
— For other details, visit the website – http://sec.bihar.gov.in/ or https://ceobihar.nic.in/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: sec.bihar.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
