
बिहार बेरोजगारी भत्ता ऑनलाइन आवेदन / पंजीकरण अब आधिकारिक वेबसाइट www.7nishchay-yuvaupmission.bihar.gov.इन पर उपलब्ध हैं, सभी बेरोज़गार युवक अब बेरोजगारी भत्ता 2019 के लिए पात्रता, जरुरी कागज़ात, टोल फ्री हेल्पलाइन नंबर और पूरी जानकारी देखें

Table of Contents

Bihar Berojgari Bhatta 20191. Bihar Berojgari Bhatta Online Registration 2018-2019
Firstly visit the official website at https://www.7nishchay-yuvaupmission.bihar.gov.in/
At the homepage, click at the “New Applicant Registration (नया आवेदक पंजीकरण)” link as shown below:-
Bihar Berojgari Bhatta Yojana 2019
Afterwards the Bihar Berojgari Bhatta Online Application Form will appear as shown below:-
Bihar Berojgari Bhatta Online Form
Here candidates can enter the name, e-mail ID, aadhaar number, mobile number and click at “Send OTP” button. Next, an OTP would be sent on the registered mobile number which needs to be entered by the candidate and then click at “Submit” button to complete the Bihar Berojgari Bhatta Online Registration process.
Afterwards, candidates will get username and password on their mobile number and then make login to fill the Bihar Berojgari Bhatta online application form.
Bihar Berojgari Bhatta Yojana EligibilityBhar Berojgari Bhatta Yojana 2019 List of Documents
Bihar Berojgari Bhatta Yojana | Bihar Berojgari Bhatta 2019 | Bihar Berojgari Bhatta Online Registration 2018-2019 | Bihar Berojgari Bhatta Online Form | Bihar Berojgari Bhatta Helpline (Toll Free) Number 
Bihar government had launched Berojgari Bhatta Yojana for unemployed youths of the state. To provide financial assistance to jobless youths, the state govt. is running Berojgari Bhatta Yojana 2019. All the educated candidates who are not getting jobs can avail unemployment allowance. In Bihar Berojgari Bhatta 2019, youths having minimum prescribed qualifications and does not have a job are eligible for getting berojgari bhatta. 
The main objective of Bihar Berojgari Bhatta Online 2019 is to assist those thousands of youths who after completing their education are still unemployed. To provide these jobless youth with financial assistance, govt. has launched Berojgari Bhatta 2019 Bihar. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

All the candidates can now make Bihar Berojgari Bhatta Online Registration 2018-2019 to enable themselves to earn minimum wages. Bihar Unemployment Allowance Scheme online application form is now available and for any further assistance, candidates can call on the toll free helpline number. 
Bihar Berojgari Bhatta 2019
In the Bihar Budget 2018, the state govt. has doubled the previous allocation for Berojgari Bhatta Yojana in order to provide assistance to each unemployed youth. In case you have completed your education and are not getting a job, then Bihar state govt. will provide you with Rs. 1000 as monthly allowance. In the Bihar Budget 2018, the state govt. has allocated Rs. 60,000 crore for this mega unemployment allowance scheme. Bihar Berojgari Bhatta 2019 has the main objective to provide assistance to jobless youths who does not possess any permanent income source.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Berojgari Bhatta Online Apply Bihar also has the objective to raise the standards of the educated youths by providing them with money. These candidates can utilize this money for development of their skills. To understand the complete procedure of making Bihar Berojgari Bhatta Online Registration 2018-2019, read this post carefully. We will provide you with the complete information about the new rules and guidelines for Berogari Bhatta. Even you would be able to understand the Bihar Berojgari Bhatta 2019 online application and registration procedure. Here we will also tell you about the eligibility and list of documents essential for Bihar Berojgari Bhatta Yojana and how you can apply online easily to get Berojgari Bhatta.
1. Bihar Berojgari Bhatta Online Registration 2018-2019

Firstly visit the official website at https://www.7nishchay-yuvaupmission.bihar.gov.in/
At the homepage, click at the “New Applicant Registration (नया आवेदक पंजीकरण)” link as shown below:-
Bihar Berojgari Bhatta Yojana 2019
Afterwards the Bihar Berojgari Bhatta Online Application Form will appear as shown below:-
Bihar Berojgari Bhatta Online Form
Here candidates can enter the name, e-mail ID, aadhaar number, mobile number and click at “Send OTP” button. Next, an OTP would be sent on the registered mobile number which needs to be entered by the candidate and then click at “Submit” button to complete the Bihar Berojgari Bhatta Online Registration process.

Afterwards, candidates will get username and password on their mobile number and then make login to fill the Bihar Berojgari Bhatta online application form.
Bihar Berojgari Bhatta Yojana Eligibility
All the candidates must possess the eligibility criteria given below to become eligible for Berojgari Bhatta 2019 Bihar:- 

The applicant of Bihar Berojgari Bhatta 2019 should be a domicile of Bihar.
To apply online for Bihar Berojgari Bhatta Yojana, applicants age must lie b/w 21 to 35 years.
For Bihar Berojgari Bhatta Yojana 2019, applicant must be 12th pass and also must have graduation / post graduation degree.
The candidate should be unemployed and should not be subjected to any other govt. allowance.
The total annual income of the family from all sources must not exceed Rs. 3 lakh.

Bhar Berojgari Bhatta Yojana 2019 List of Documents
The complete list of documents to apply online for Bihar Berojgari Bhatta Yojana 2019 is given below:- 

Applicant must possess an Aadhaar Card.
The applicants must be a permanent resident of Bihar.
He / She must possess mark sheet of 10th / 12th class / graduation.
Candidates must possess an Income Certificate.
Photocopy of Bank Passbook and A/C details

The Bihar Berojgari Bhatta Toll Free Helpline Number is 1800 3456 444.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: www.7nishchay-yuvaupmission.bihar.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
