


Table of Contents

Kerala Zero Unemployment Scheme 2020Incentives for Industries in KeralaRemoval of Building Curbs to Facilitate Investment in Kerala
Kerala government has launched Zero Unemployment Scheme 2020 for the welfare of jobless youth. Under this 0 unemployment scheme, the state govt. will provide 5 years subsidy for new industries on the basis of creation of new employment opportunities. The industries registering in Kerala from 1 April 2020 to 31 March 2025 will be eligible for Wage Incentive Scheme. Moreover, industry launched on 31 March 2025 will get five years to implement the project and the subsidy scheme will end in five years. 
The main objective is to realize the vision of zero employment in Kerala in the next 10 years. Kerala Zero Unemployment Scheme will ensure social security for 37 lakh families.
The state govt. is focusing on ease of doing business and making Kerala an investor friendly state. This scheme will ensure that youths get employment opportunities as per their educational qualification.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Kerala Zero Unemployment Scheme 2020
The important features and highlights of Zero Unemployment Scheme 2020-25 in Kerala are as follows:-

To achieve 0 unemployment in the next 10 years in Kerala.
5 years Subsidy for new industries based on creation of new employment opportunities for unemployed candidates.
Kerala govt. will give substantial amount as subsidy for each job opportunity during 5 year time frame.
For women empowerment, each women employee will fetch Rs. 2,000 more than her male counterpart.
Industries registered b/w 1 April 2020 to 31 March 2025 are eligible.
All of these registered industries will get 5 years to implement Zero Unemployment Scheme.
This scheme is going to ensure social security coverage to around 37 lakh families.
Kerala govt. will remove restrictions on women to work during night hours.
Industries would be able to employ women workers for night duty if they can ensure their security.
The woman workers should be provided safe accommodation and travel facilities.
Kerala 5 Year Subsidy New Industries

All this information is given by CM Pinarayi Vijayan while inaugurating ASCEND 2020, the second Global Investors Meet in Kochi.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Incentives for Industries in Kerala
Kerala government is planning to to ease the restrictions on private land holdings in order to facilitate big industrial investment. The Land Reforms Act introduced by the state in 1963 had limited the maximum land holding by a private individual to 15 acres. But this was posing hurdles in bringing big industries in the state. So, Kerala govt. will relax restrictions for industries that invest more than Rs. 250 crore and provide employment to more than 1,000 people.
The state govt. of Kerala wants to make Kerala one among the top 5 investor-friendly states in the country. Kerala government has identified 1,500 acres of land in Palakkad for development of industries under the Kochi-Coimbatore Industrial Corridor project. KSIDC has drawn project to develop life science parks, medical devices park, an electronics & hardware park and a light engineering park. Govt. will also explore possibilities of development in the tourism sector so that each resident in the state can host a tourist.

Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated Ascend Kerala 2020, the global investors meet. The focused efforts of the Government have helped to improve the "Ease Of Doing Business" in the State. The meet is being held at Lulu Bolgatty International Convention Centre in Kochi. pic.twitter.com/mIRDkgNl1J
— CMO Kerala (@CMOKerala) January 9, 2020
 
All villages in the Kerala state have the potential to grow as tourism destinations. To facilitate the development, we have to improve basic amenities including hotels and homestays. The whole network would be brought under a centralized monitoring system.
Removal of Building Curbs to Facilitate Investment in Kerala
Various industrial parks would be established in private sector and common facilities would be provided. To address the complaints of investors regarding non-cooperation of local bodies, Kerala govt. has set target of creating 5 employment opportunities per 1,000 population per year for each local body. The restrictions on construction of buildings with more than 18,000 sq m space along panchayat roads will be removed.
The state govt. will initiate steps to provide power connection to new business ventures within 30 days from the date of application. Moreover, all the industrial units will be allowed to source water from the nearest water body if they install rainwater harvesting units. In addition to this, Environment approval for buildings with a built-up area of more than 20,000 sq m will be provided through a single-window system. 
The deposit amount for upgrading the power connection will be returned by the state government of Kerala in installments. The loan amount extended by KSIDC to industries will be raised to Rs. 100 crore from the present Rs. 35 crore.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://www.newindianexpress.com/states/kerala/2020/jan/10/5-year-subsidy-for-new-industries-govt-eyes-zero-unemployment-2087590.html
SAVE AS PDF
