
Kerala govt. is going to launch Free School Uniform Distribution Scheme in the state. Under this scheme, around 4.5 lakh govt. school students studying in Class I to Class VII will get handloom uniforms. This Free Handloom School Uniform Scheme will boost the education sector as well as the handloom sector. Govt. will start this uniforms distribution in the state from 2 May 2018. 
This free school uniforms will cover around 3, 701 schools in the state. Under this handloom uniforms scheme, govt. will distribute 23 lakh metres of cloth for Class 1st to 7th students in government schools.
This scheme is a major initiative of the state govt. to improve education standards in the state along with that of labourers working in handloom industry.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Kerala Free Handloom School Uniform Distribution Scheme
The important features and highlights of this free school uniform scheme are as follows:-

The state govt. will start distribution of free handloom school uniforms from 2 May 2018.
School Uniforms made of approx. 23 lakh metres of cloth (for shirting, suiting and skirting) will be given to around 4.5 lakh students.
Only the students studying in Class 1st to 7th are applicable for this scheme. This scheme will cover 3,701 schools in the state.
Free Handloom School Uniform will help the general education sector and handloom sector.
Kerala LDF govt. successfully rehabilitates various traditional handloom labourers by hiking the basic wages from Rs. 400 to Rs. 600 on daily basis.
Several labourers get jobs only under the handloom school uniform scheme. For this scheme, govt. has already dispensed around Rs. 40 crore to the workers.

The current state govt. is working consistently to protect the labourers and for the welfare of the handloom sector. Hantex will distribute handloom school uniforms from Thiruvananthapuram to Ernakulam districts. Hanweave will distribute the school uniforms from Thrissur to Kasargod districts.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});






(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
