
Chief Minister of Kerala, Pinarayi Vijayan has launched e-Heath Kerala Scheme to create a framework to ensure the effectual health care to common citizen through a centralized database of health care information. The project has been launched by the state health department in association with the state IT Mission.
The inauguration of e-health Kerala was done by Vijayan by handing over the electronic medical record (EMR) to Shanthakumari, a resident of Peroorkada. During the function, Health Minister, K.K. Shylaja also inaugurated the public health survey under which 8,000 tablet computers will be distributed to health workers for creating the database.
Almost all the funds for e-Health Kerala would be provided by central government. Under the project, the government has set a target to create a cloud that will have the complete healthcare records of all the citizens of Kerala state and the project would get help in accuracy of data through the digitization of government hospitals.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

e-health Kerala will be a revolutionary change for Kerala state and it will cost around Rs. 96 crore. The project will help in the creation of a patient-friendly interface for the public healthcare institutions all over the state.
The implementation process of the project will be made successful by the support of hospitals and institutional staff and general public of Kerala.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

e-health Kerala will provide a strong base for Aardram Mission, one of the flagship projects of Kerala government under which the government has set a target to improve the facilities in government hospitals. These projects will also help in providing treatment at a reasonable price.
Key Features of e-Health Kerala

A Unique Health ID would be provided to the patients which will enable them to access every documents related to their health from anywhere anytime.
The project will shorten the length of queues at hospitals and laboratories.
The project will also help in the monitoring of the people’s health which further help in taking effective control measures over contagious diseases.
The database of e-health Kerala will have every detail with regards to a person’s health like lab details, medicines they take, treatment they undergo. It will also have the details about their residences including drinking water facility, waste management etc.






(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
