
Kerala State Literacy Mission Authority will launch a continuous Sama Education Plan for Kudumbashree members. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate this new Sama Education programme in Thiruvananthapuram at 4:30 p.m on 17 December 2019. All the participants would be enrolled in Class 10th and Class 12th equivalency courses. In 1st phase, around 1 lakh Kudambashree workers who were unable to complete their school education will be registered in Sama edu programme.
The main objective of Sama Education Plan is to provide minimum educational qualification of 10th class to all Kudambashree workers in Kerala. Till date, there are 48 lakh Kudambashree members in the state. The Sama Edu Plan Registration will start on 17 Dec 2019 and last date to apply online for course is 31 December 2019.
The classes for Kudumbashree members under Kerala Sama Edu programme will start in the month of January 2020.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Kerala Sama Education Plan for Kudumbashree Workers
Out of 48 lakh Kudumbashree workers in Kerala, around 1 lakh members will be enrolled in class 10 & class 12 equivalency courses in Sama Edu Plan. Literacy Mission has introduced Sama Education Plan as a part of its women empowerment project in association with Kudumbasree. All the interested persons can apply online for enrollment in Sama education programme b/w 17 Dec to 31 December 2019 to attend classes in January next year.
Sama Education programme aims to provide min. 10th class qualification to members of Kudumbashree mission. Literacy Mission will arrange classes in 1,000 local bodies across the state. There would be 2 batches of 50 members each attending the classes. There will be 2,000 central coordinators for Kerala Sama Education Scheme 2019-2020, one for each equivalency course at each centre. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The course fee and examination fees for the candidates would be paid by the respective self governing bodies. Kudumbashree members who were qualified to teach will be given preference in order to conduct the classes efficiently. Kerala State Literacy Mission is already collecting the details of candidates from Kudumbashree. These includes workers who could not complete their education due to various reasons and are willing to make registration for Sama Education Plan. 
Equivalency programmes are organised in view of providing an alternative education that is equivalent to the existing formal system of education, be it related to formal or vocational education. This programme is targeted towards those neo-literates who aspires to continue their education and acquire certificate that would place them equal standing with others who have successfully completed their studies from the formal system of education.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-to-launch-sama-edu-plan-tomorrow-to-benefit-1l-workers/articleshow/72702273.cms
SAVE AS PDF
