


Table of Contents

Swadesh Darshan Scheme KeralaDevelopment of Spiritual Tourism CircuitsTarget of 40 Million Tourists by 2026
Union Ministry of Tourism announces to provide Rs. 85.23 crore financial assistance to develop spiritual tourism circuits in Kerala under Swadesh Darshan Scheme. This amount will enable development of tourism circuits and will cover 133 places of worship in the state. The central govt. had selected shrines belonging to different faiths from all of the 14 districts. 
All the destinations had been chosen after considering their historic, cultural and religious significance. It is the 6th project which has been sanctioned for the Kerala state under the Swadesh Darshan Scheme.
PM Narendra Modi is going to visit the Sree Padmanabhaswami temple on 21 January 2019 where he will dedicate the amenities developed at the temple as part of the Swadesh Darshan scheme. Around 95% of the project work has already been completed.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Swadesh Darshan Scheme Kerala
The union govt. has sanctioned Rs. 85.23 crore assistance in order to develop spiritual tourism circuits in 14 districts covering 133 places in Kerala. To get more details, visit Swadesh Darshan Scheme official website at swadeshdarshan.gov.in. Under this Swadesh Darshan Scheme in Kerala, govt. will focus on creating annadana mandapam, community hall, multipurpose hall, toilets, cafeteria, parking space, landscaping, pathways, illumination of the campus and signage at the tourism destinations. 
Till date, the central govt. has sanctioned a total of Rs. 550 crore for the Kerala state under the Swadesh Darshan and Prasad schemes. Moreover, there are 6 projects under the Swadesh Darshan Scheme and 1 project under the Prasad Scheme with Rs. 175 crore sanctioned so far.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Development of Spiritual Tourism Circuits
Union minister of Tourism said that the state govt. can’t put blame on floods for non-implementation of previous developmental works of spiritual tourism circuits. Till date, the state govt. has not implemented Rs. 99.99 crore project for Sabarimala, Erumeli and Pampa under the Swadesh Darshan project. 
The first installment for development of tourism circuits was sanctioned 2 years ago. The state govt. is yet to submit details of utilizing the first installment under Swadesh Darshan Scheme. The second installment for spiritual tourism circuits development can only be sanctioned after receiving the details of utilization of 1st installment amount. 
Target of 40 Million Tourists by 2026
The central govt. has set a target of around 40 million tourists annually across the country by FY 2026. Union govt. aims to develop Kerala as a must visit destination as the current ranking of the state in terms of domestic tourists arrivals is 16th and 8th in foreign tourists arrivals. The neighboring Tamil Nadu state currently holds 1st and 3rd spot respectively. 
Central govt. is providing wide publicity for Kerala to get over the post flood crisis. From then onward, there is shortage of around 18.5% in tourist arrivals to the state. Many people outside the state has an opinion that tourism destinations in Kerala are yet to recover from the havoc caused by the deluge. Tourism ministry is working hard to convince tourists that Kerala’s tourism sector is back on track.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
