
Karunya Health Scheme in Kerala is an ambitious scheme of state government under which it provides a health cover of up to Rs. 2 Lakh at a nominal premium. The scheme was launched by the previous UDF government, however the in-Power Kerala State government has confirmed the continuation “Karunya Health Scheme” for the state residents. 
Karunya Health Scheme – Introduction
Karunya Health Scheme is a special kind of health scheme conceived and implemented by UDF government. The scheme provides health cover of Rs. 2 Lakh to the residents of Kerala at a very low premium. The state government has hundreds of private and government hospitals in its list where cashless treatment under the scheme is provided to the beneficiaries.
The list of empaneled hospitals is available on the official website of Karunya Health Scheme. To view the district wise list of empaneled hospitals, you just need to visit this link and select your district and hospital type and then click View List button.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Karunya Health Scheme – How to Apply
The detailed procedure to apply for the scheme is also given on the official website at http://karunya.kerala.gov.in. The applicants can also check the status of their application by entering their reference number or file number on the same website.
The application forms for claims, declaration, refund & others can be downloaded in PDF format from the downloads section in the official website.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The list of beneficiaries is also available on the website which can be viewed on the basis of district, name of hospital and the date range.
According to some speculations, the scheme was to be scrapped but the state government has cleared that there are no plans to abandon the Karunya health scheme.
In the next financial year’s budget, the government has already allocated around Rs. 250 crore for the scheme. The funds for Karunya Health Scheme has already been released by the government to provide more benefits of the scheme. The dues of Rs. 25 crore of private hospitals with regards to Karunya Benevolent Fund Scheme has also released by the government.
As per information of the scheme, a financial assistance of Rs. 2 lakh was being given to patient but later the government was thinking to revamp the scheme by covering the cost of patient’s treatment.
There are some issues raised by the public hospitals regarding to the funds under Karunya Funds Scheme but the government is working to sort these.
Official Website for Karunya health scheme: http://karunya.kerala.gov.in





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
