
Social Justice Department (SJD) of Kerala is going to launch Vayomadhuram Scheme for diabetic patients to monitor blood glucose level. Under this scheme, govt. will provide free kits comprising of 1 Glucometer and 25 Test Strips to every senior citizen above 65 years suffering from diabetes and belonging to Below Poverty Line (BPL) Category. Govt. will launch this scheme on 18 July 2018. 
The primary objective is to help the diabetic patients in their old age who are at higher risk of diseases. People can utilize this kit for regular monitoring of their blood sugar levels. The Glucometers price in the market varies from Rs. 450 to Rs. 2500 depending on their brands. So, this scheme will assist poor people of BPL Category. 
Govt. has acquired these kits from Kerala Medical Service Corporation Limited (KMSCL) and the state govt. will formally tie-up with this company after the official launch event.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Kerala Vayomadhuram Scheme for Poor Senior Citizens Affected from Diabetes
The important features and highlights of this scheme for diabetes affected Senior Citizens are as follows:- 

All the Senior Citizens above 65 years of age and belonging to BPL Category and affected from Diabetes are eligible.
All the eligible people will get free kits containing one Glucometer and 25 testing strips.
At the formal launch event on 18 July 2018, govt. will provide 10 kits to 10 eligible people for blood glucose monitoring.
In the first phase, govt. will provide free glucometer kits to around 800 beneficiaries.
Initially, this scheme will focus on poor elderly diabetic patients in Old Age Homes. In the next phase, govt. will extend this scheme to all other eligible beneficiaries.
Minimum price of Glucometer kit with 25 strips is around Rs. 450 and varies as per the brand.

All the diabetic elderly people can apply online for this scheme. They must fill the Vayomadhuram Scheme Application Form and submit it with other documents. Supporting Documents includes a Certificate from a Doctor certifying that they are diabetic and other certificate of BPL Category. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});






(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
