


Table of Contents

Saranya Loan Scheme Application Form DownloadEligibility Criteria for Saranya Loan SchemeProcessing of ApplicationMonitoringReferences
Kerala govt. has launched Saranya scheme for unemployed women. The main motive of this self employment scheme to uplift backward and segregated women like widow, uneducated, divorced women and those who are above the age of 30 yrs and unwedded mothers belonging to Schedule Tribe. Under this scheme banks will give interest-free loan up to Rs. 50,000 to start self business.
Under Saranya scheme, 50% loan amount up to maximum limit of Rs 25,000 will be given as Government subsidy by Employment department. To return loan amount under Saranya self employment scheme, there will be 60 equal monthly installments. 
Saranya scheme is applicable for all individual entrepreneurs. Still this loan scheme is applicable for those women who wants to start joint business by more than one entrepreneur. Each woman in this joint startup would benefit the business more amount of loan than single one and receive maximum amount of loan and its subsidy.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Saranya Loan Scheme Application Form Download
Candidate can download the application form official website or physically from Employment Exchange.Then they have to fill complete details and submit application form with the detailed project report and income certificate to the village officer. People can easily download the Saranya Scheme Application Form in PDF format through the link given below:-

Official Website – employmentkerala.gov.in
Download Saranya Loan Scheme Application Form PDF
The Application for Loan under Saranya Scheme will appear as follows:-
Kerala Saranya Loan Scheme Registration

Employment exchange officers will verify the correctness of application and supporting documents.Then finally it will be forwarded to District Employment Exchange.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Eligibility Criteria for Saranya Loan Scheme
All unemployed, widow, divorced, spinsters and unwedded mothers belonging to Schedule Tribe will be registered in the Kerala Employment Exchange. These women must belong to the age group of 18-55 years except spinsters to become eligible. If any woman needs loan amount more than limit of Rs. 50,000,she will have to exempt her 10% beneficiary contribution. Beside,the beneficiary must send 3% interest for the amount she avails.
List of Eligible Candidates


Widow


Widows women are those whose husbands is died and has not remarried till the scheme is applied by the govt. Chairman of the Municipal Corporation or the Mayor of the Corporation or Village/President of Gram Panchayat will provide certificates on a case to case basis.


Divorced Woman


Divorced women are those women who are divorced / received divorcee certificate by court or by their religious organization. She can belong to any religion. That divorcee certificate will show that she has not remarried until the Village Officer forwards the application.


Deserted Woman


Deserted women are those women whose husband is missing for at-least 7 years. All such women must obtain certificate from Tehsildar that she had not undergone remarriage.


Spinsters


Women above the age of 30 years (as on 1 April) and has not been married yet along with a proof from Village Officer.

Unmarried Mother


Women of ST category who have become mother without any marriage. Village Officer certificate with regard to caste and community must be produced. Annual family income of such women must not exceed Rs. 1 lakh.


For detailed guidelines, click the link – Saranya Scheme Application Guidelines
Processing of Application
All the application are then submitted by District Employment Officer to the District Committee for loans approvals. Loan sanctioning authority is the District Committee for Saranya where District Employment is Convener and District Collector is Chairman.
After the loan is approved under Saranya Scheme,demand draft for the loan amount is directly sent to the applicant’s bank account from Employment Department. 
Monitoring
The Director of Employment has all the control on the scheme.The scheme is directly monitored by the District Employment Officer and officers of Town Employment Exchanges.
If no response is received, Revenue recovery action to recover loan amount with interest would be initiated. If the Department found that the loan amount is utilized for other purposes then the project will be sanctioned. The entire amount along with subsidy will be recovered by revenue recovery procedures.
References
— Press Release – View Details
— Government Order 1 – View Details
— Government Order 2 – View Details





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
