
केरल वोटर लिस्ट 2020 (PDF) अब सीईओ की आधिकारिक वेबसाइट ceo.kerala.gov.in पर उपलब्ध है, नयी मतदाता सूची में अपना नाम अपनी जानकारी या EPIC नंबर के आधार पर खोजें और वोटर ID कार्ड डाउनलोड करें

Table of Contents

Kerala Election Commission Voters List with PhotoKerala CEO Voter List 2020 (PDF Electoral Rolls) Downloadwww.ceo.kerala.gov.in Voters List Search – Voter ID Card DownloadKerala Voters List with Photo E-Registration
Election Commission of India had announced Lok Sabha (General) Elections Dates for voting in the country. In the Kerala state, voting for 20 Loksabha seats was held in 3rd Phase i.e voting on 23rd April 2019. Chief Electoral Officer has published Kerala CEO Voters List 2020 where people can perform name search in the New PDF Electoral Roll and download Voter ID Card at ceo.kerala.gov.in
All the citizens are required to download Kerala Election Commission Voters List with Photo. From this downloaded CEO Voter List 2020 (PDF electoral rolls), people can check their name manually to caste their important vote. Now all voters can find their name online by performing voters list search and by downloading their Voter ID Card.
People who have still not applied for new voter card or their name is not in the voter’s list can make e-registration for voter ID card.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Kerala Election Commission Voters List with Photo
Below is the complete procedure to check name in the Election Commission Voters List with Photo:-

http://www.ceo.kerala.gov.in/electoralrolls.html
On clicking this link, the Booth Wise Voter’s List of Kerala will appear as shown below:-
Kerala Booth Wise Voters List
Here candidates can enter the district name, legislative assembly constituency name and then click at “Get Booth List” button to open the page which will appear as shown below:-
ww.ceo.kerala.gov.in Voters List
Then click at the “Download Draft / Supplementary Roll (PDF format)” to open the Download Electoral Roll page. Then enter the captcha and click at the download button to open the PDF Electoral Rolls of Kerala.
Kerala Voters List with Photo
Candidates can download this voter list pdf file as per their polling station and booth name.

The entire PDF file of the Kerala Electoral Roll (Voter List) 2020 is now available online. Here citizens can perform manual searching in the Kerala Voter List 2020. Moreover, people can adopt a hassle free process and check their names online.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Kerala CEO Voter List 2020 (PDF Electoral Rolls) Download
All the citizens can download Kerala CEO Voters List 2019-2020 (PDF Electoral Rolls) through the link given below:- 

http://lsgelection.kerala.gov.in/public/search/voterlist
After clicking this link, the View Electoral Roll page will appear as shown below:-
Kerala Voters List View Electoral Rolls
Here candidates can enter the name of district, local body, ward, polling station and then click at the “Submit” button to open the CEO Voter List 2020 as shown below:-
Kerala Voters List 2020 ID Card Wise

www.ceo.kerala.gov.in Voters List Search – Voter ID Card Download
People can now find their name online in the Voters List 2019-2020 of Kerala and can download their Voter ID Card through the link below:- 

http://ceo.kerala.gov.in/rollsearch.html?lang=en
The name search page for Kerala Voters List 2020 will appear as shown below:-
Kerala Voters List Search Name
People can now find their name online in the Kerala CEO Voters List 2020 and download ID Card.

All the citizens can now check their name in the district wise CEO Kerala Voters List 2020 with Photo and download Voter ID Card. The updated Kerala Electoral Rolls with Photo is available in the PDF format where people can find their name in the CEO Kerala Voters List 2019-2020 and can Download Voter ID Card before casting their vote. To get further assistance, citizens can call on the Voter’s helpline number 1950.
Kerala Voters List with Photo E-Registration
All the citizens whose name is not present in the Kerala Voters List 2020 can make registration for name inclusion in CEO Voter List through the link below:-

http://www.ceo.kerala.gov.in/eregistration.html
Voter List 2020 Kerala e-Registration

For more details visit the official website ceo.kerala.gov.in. Alternatively, people can also apply online to get their name included in the voters list at nvsp.in.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: ceo.kerala.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
