
Kerala government has decided to provide Onam Kits with food items to 5.95 lakh families under Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY). Govt. has taken this decision in a cabinet meeting headed by CM Pinarayi Vijayan. The state govt. will implement the distribution of Free Food Kits with an outlay of Rs. 6.91 crore. The state govt. will implement distribution of Onam Kits to around 6 lakh households through State Civil Supply Corporation outlets. 
These kits will be provided free of cost and will contain vegetables and provisions for a feast. The primary objective is to celebrate and enjoy Onam festival which brings a lots of happiness in the life of people. 
Onam is a festival where people enjoys vegetarian feast on Thiruvonam which is the second day of Onam. Onam in 2018 is on 24 August 2018. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Kerala Free Onam Kits – Food Items under Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY)
The important features and highlights of Free Onam Food Kits Scheme under Antyodaya Anna Yojana are as follows:- 

Onam Kits Distribution –

Cabinet Committee has taken this decision in a meeting presided over by CM Pinarayi Vijayan.
The state govt. of Kerala has decided to supply Free Food Item Kits during Onam Festival under Antodaya Anna Yojana Scheme.
State Civil Supply Corporation has been given the responsibility to distribute Onam Kits.
The state govt. has allocated an amount of Rs. 6.91 crore for Food Kits.


Distribution of Sugar –

Kerala govt. will also distribute 1 kg sugar at a rate of Rs. 22 to 81 lakh ration card holders.
To successfully implement the sugar distribution scheme, the state govt. has allocated Rs. 14.72 crore.


Setting Up of Madrasa Teacher Welfare Fund Board –

Cabinet Committee has also decided to send a recommendation to Governor to put forward an ordinance for Bill to constitute a Welfare Fund Board for Madrasa teachers.
This board will be further responsible for the speedy disbursement of pension, treatment allowance, financial assistance for the marriage of daughters of madrasa teachers and maternity benefits for women members.
All the madrasa teachers who have now become Board members will now have to pay Rs. 50 per month as premium amount.


Kerala Fish Auctioning, Marketing and Quality Control Act. –

The state cabinet committee also approves a Bill to regulate fish auction and sale. This bill would also comprise of provisions which would ensure the quality of sold fish.
Till date, there was no such regulation to auction the fish at fish landing center, harbour and market which results in auctioneers playing the role of middlemen. These middlemen charges exorbitant commissions from fish workers.
The state govt. will soon put forward a mechanism in place to ensure that all the fishermen gets reasonable prices for their fish.



Cabinet Committee has also decided to form a Sea Rescue Squad for conducting rescue operations in 222 fishing villages. In the first phase, govt. will provide training to 5 groups containing 15 members. This squad will involve fishermen who would receive training in power boat operation and operating sea safety equipment. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Training would be provided with a daily stipend of Rs. 700 and through govt. recognized establishment. Govt. has allocated Rs. 7.5 crore for this purpose. This will be sanctioned from the Chief Minister’s Disaster Relief Fund.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
