
Kerala govt. has launched Ente Koodu (My Nest) Scheme to provide free night shelter facility to women and children below 12 years of age. This facility is equipped with air conditioned rooms, free accommodation, free food, full time security, television, kitchen & bathrooms. Initially, this scheme is being implemented in Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode by the department of Social Justice in Kerala. 
Minister for Social Justice K.K. Shylaja announces that this night lodging facility is functional on the 8th floor of Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) bus terminal, Thampanoor and will be extended to other important cities across the state. All the women reaching the city for various purposes finds difficulty in getting safe lodging facility, so this Ente Koodu Scheme will address these concerns. 
Previously, My Nest scheme was launched in FY 2015 to provide night lodging facility where destitute women and girls and boys up to 12 years could stay at night in complete safety for free.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Kerala Ente Koodu (My Nest) Scheme for Women & Children
The state govt. of Kerala has launched Ente Koodu scheme to ensure safety of women, girls and children. On reaching the city, all the visitors can avail night shelter facility from 5 p.m to 7 a.m. Around 50 inmates can stay at a time in the night having full AC rooms, locker facility, free of cost food, television with cable connection, washing machine, kitchen, washrooms, computer with internet facility. 
For this My Nest scheme, the state govt. has allocated Rs. 25 lakh which includes maintenance, recurring expenses and salary of the staff. The shelter in Thampanoor has been set up with the support of Costford and Sidco. An person can avail the AC facility for 3 consecutive nights and the night shelters have 25 bunk beds which can accommodate 50 people at a time. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

This Ente Koodu project is being implemented by district social justice officer in coordination with department of police, district administration and other voluntary organizations. This project will have a manager, a cleaning staff and two security personnel which will be posted at the shelter. A separate counter would be there for registration purposes.

Ente Koodu (“My Nest”) scheme will provide free accommodation to women and children who arrive in the city. The first such space is now open at the KSRTC bus terminal in Thiruvananthapuram. Women and children who accompany them can avail facility under My Nest Scheme between 5 p.m to 7 a.m.
pic.twitter.com/orMu5iFqHY
— CMO Kerala (@CMOKerala) November 8, 2018

A cheque for Rs. 1.31 lakh raised by anganwadis and other shelter homes towards the CM’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF) was handed over to the Minister on this occasion. Visit the official website for Ente Koodu Scheme complete details.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
