
Kerala govt. is planning to provide Interest Free Loans for Refurnishing Flood Hit Houses. After massive devastation due to floods in Kerala, govt. is focusing on rehabilitation of people. CM Pinarayi Vijayan has informed that these loans which can go upto Rs. 1 lakh will be provided on an Interest free basis to female head of the family. All the interest will be borne by the state government. 
The state has recently witnessed a massive destruction due to floods. Around 13 out of the total 14 districts were under red alert and this is the huge fury which the state has seen in the previous 100 years. All the houses have been destroyed and are not fit for living. In this hour of need, Central govt. and people across the country has given Donations for Flood Relief in Kerala. 
Now the major task is to rehabilitate people and so govt. is planning to offer loans to the people for rebuilding houses. This announcement was made on 23 August 2018. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Interest Free Loans to Women for Flood Hit Houses in Kerala
Till date, there are 10,40,688 people belonging to 2,78,761 families in 2,774 relief camps. To refurnish the destructed or repairable houses, govt. is planning to provide loans to the people. The state govt. would provide Interest Free Loans for Refurnishing Flood Hit Houses to female head of the family. 
These loans will go upto Rs. 1 lakh and the complete interest will be borne by the state government. In addition to this, when people will return to homes after being sanitized, each one of them will get a kit comprising 5 Kg of rice. At present, relief camps are mainly setup at schools and colleges, which are on vacation. However, people will have to be relocated from here once the vacation ends. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

CM has given instructions to the DCs to find suitable alternatives. Simultaneously, rebuilding or repairing the flood stricken houses needs to be carried out. People residing in disaster prone areas will be shifted to safer locations. This will be done after consultations and their consensus.
Kerala Interest Free Loans Flood Affected Women
Restoration Electricity work affected by floods is in progress. Out of 50 substations that were affected, 41 are already back in service. Similarly, 13,477 transformers have been recharged from total 16158 affected. Around 21.61 lakh have been restored out of 25.6 lakh service connections which were disrupted. 
People must celebrate Onam festival this year by helping others who are suffering. More than 1 million are taking shelter in relief camps. This was the worst disaster in the history of the state. People must set an example in rebuilding efforts.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
