


Table of Contents

Kerala KSFE Pravasi Chitty 2018 Online Registration FormKerala Pravasi Chit Scheme / KSFE NRI Online Chitty SchemeKSFE Pravasi Chitty Complaint – Helpline Number
KSFE Pravasi Chitty Scheme 2018 is unique financial savings scheme launched by the Kerala govt. for the welfare of Malayalees abroad. This Chitty scheme in Kerala comes with an insurance coverage and pension plan. The state govt. has launched a new software to join pravasi chitty, pay installments, take part in chitty auction. Accordingly, all the interested Non Resident Keralites (NRKs) can fill the Kerala Pravasi Chitty 2018 Online Registration Form at pravasi.ksfe.com
This is a fund-mobilization platform to solve the problem of infrastructure in Kerala. The remittances of NRIs plays an important role essential for the growth of Kerala’s economy. This scheme will promote savings among NRIs to improve economic stability. The registration forms are now available from 19 June 2018. 
Pravasi Chits also has many features which makes it different from other financial instruments. Out of the total Rs. 50,000 crore for developmental activities in next 5 years in Kerala, govt. wants to generate Rs. 10,000 crore from these Pravasi Chitties.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Kerala KSFE Pravasi Chitty 2018 Online Registration Form

Visit the official website pravasi.ksfe.com
On the KSFE Chitty Default homepage, click at the “Register Now” tab
Direct Link for Registration – Candidates can directly click the link given here to open the Customer Registration Form
Afterwards, KSFE Pravasi Chitty 2018 Online Registration Form will appear as follows:-
KSFE Pravasi Chitty Online Registration Form
Here candidates have to enter their Personal details, Passport Number, E-Mail Id, ISD Code, NRK ID & National Identification Number.
Now Candidates have to click at the “Verify with NORKA” button to complete the registration process.

Moreover, all the registered candidates can make “Customer Login” using the Username and Password.
Kerala Pravasi Chit Scheme / KSFE NRI Online Chitty Scheme
Large scale migration of malayalees to gulf region plays a major role in Kerala’s economy. These Malayali Pravasis plays an important role in the social, economic and cultural development of the state. As per the report, Remittances sent by diaspora support at least 50 lakh people out of total population of Kerala (3.15 crore). Kerala Govt. will utilize all the generated investment for the development of health, education, public works & services, social security etc.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Moreover, Migrants also lives under unstable and insecure working conditions and the jobs of NRI’s are also not certain. So, KSFE has launched a financial scheme for the betterment of Malayali population abroad. This scheme will provide financial support for their risky businesses and also provides an opportunity for participation in the infrastructure development in the state. To know more about KSFE (Kerala State Financial Enterprises) and KIIB (Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board) – Click Here 
Pravasi Chit Features


Internet and mobile-based chits
Android mobile app


Online chit selection & Auction
Application security tested as per international standards


Online installment remittance
Safe, secure and transparent bidding process


Integrated chat-bot, e-mail, SMS, social media support
24X7 contact centre for customer support


Pravasis can help the govt. to realize the dreams of development through joining ksfe pravasi chitty. It is also important to note that all Non Resident Keralites (NRKs) will not have to contribute any money (even a single paise) to the state government. All NRKs just have to Join Pravasi Chitty. KSFE NRI Online Chitty Scheme is a safe deposit and 100% trusted investment option along with 24*7 assistance. Chit Insurance Cover and an optional Pension Deposit Scheme are most striking features of this KSFE Pravasi Chitty Scheme. For more details, click the link given here – KSFE Pravasi Chit Features 
KSFE Pravasi Chitty Complaint – Helpline Number
Kerala govt. will address all the Complaints / Grievances on Registration & KYC or Installment. People can now get answers to questions like “How to join KSFE – Pravasi Chitts”, “Is NORKA Registration Mandatory”, “Necessity of KYC”, “Modes of Payment, Monthly Dues, Penalty” in FAQ’s (Frequently Asked Questions). To make complaint, candidates can call on the Helpline Number:-
— Registered Office – It is located at Bhadratha, Museum Road, P.B. NO.510, Thrissur – 680 020.
— Helpline Number – People can call on the Helpline Number : 0471-6661888 (8 a.m to 8 p.m), Whatsapp Number : +91 9447097907 or can send and e-mail to [email protected]
— For UAE Applicants – For UAE, candidates can give a missed call to 04-8189669 or send an SMS : KSFE to 3707.
— Official Website – For all other information, visit the official website https://pravasi.ksfe.com/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
