


Table of Contents

MP Mukhyamantri Jan Kalyan Yojana 2020 Schemes ListMP Mukhyamantri Jan Kalyan Yojana 2020Medhavi Vidyarthi Protsahan Yojana & Hum Choo Lenge Aasman Scheme1. Medhavi Vidyarthi Protsahan Yojana (Free Laptop to Students with 70% or above Marks)2. Hum Choo Lenge Aasman Scheme (Career Counselling Plan)
The state govt. of Madhya Pradesh has now started implementing MP Mukhyamantri Jan Kalyan Yojana from the FY 2020. Under this scheme, MP govt. will pay the complete fees of all students from poor and lower middle income group families to assist them in pursuing higher education. All the students who have secured less than 70% marks in Class 12th examination belonging to any caste will be covered.
For all students (any category) with more than 70% marks in Class 12th Board Examinations will be eligible for Free Laptop Scheme under the Medhavi Vidhyarthi Protsahan Yojana / MP Pratibhashali Chhatra Protsahan Yojana 2020. Govt. will provide Rs. 25,000 each to students for the purchase of laptops. 
CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan has also started a new Hum Choo Lenge Aasman Scheme to provide Career Counselling for Students. Govt. will provide special counselling through the experts to assist students in planning their future.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

MP Mukhyamantri Jan Kalyan Yojana 2020 Schemes List
a) Free Admissions to Children of Labourers – Shiksha Protsahan Yojana / Nishulk Uchcha Shiksha Yojana 2020
b) MP Saral Bijli Bill Scheme 2020
c) Electricity Bill at Rs. 200 for 77 Lakh Mukhyamantri Jan Kalyan Yojana Beneficiaries
d) MP Mukhyamantri Bakaya Bijlee Bill Mafi Scheme 2020
MP Mukhyamantri Jan Kalyan Yojana 2020
This scheme includes various schemes but has one component for the welfare of students. Under this scheme, govt. will bear the complete fees of all the students from the poor and middle income group families. MP govt. will pay the complete fees of Poor Students with less than 70% Marks in senior secondary examinations. To avail the benefits of this scheme, candidates must fulfill the following eligibility:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


All the students belonging to the family of labourers and workers. (Any Category)
Students from the family of the farmers having total land holding of less than 2.5 acres are eligible.
All the students from NON-Income Tax Payee Families.

Govt. will pay the complete fees to enable them to pursue higher education so that the money does not become a problem in studies. This scheme will include other initiatives for the poor and deprived people – Click here
Medhavi Vidyarthi Protsahan Yojana & Hum Choo Lenge Aasman Scheme
The state govt. of MP has launched various other schemes for the 12th pass students which are described below:- 
1. Medhavi Vidyarthi Protsahan Yojana (Free Laptop to Students with 70% or above Marks)
The primary objective of this free laptop scheme is to encourage talented students for higher studies and helping them financially. Laptops will be provided to all the students securing excellent marks in the class 12th MPBSE Exam. This scheme will ensure that the students will be able to continue their higher education studies and get admissions in various high level courses like PG, Engineering, Medical, Polytechnic, First grade colleges. For more details – Click Here
2. Hum Choo Lenge Aasman Scheme (Career Counselling Plan)
Along with the free laptop scheme for meritorious students, govt. has also started the second level of Career Counselling Plan in Madhya Pradesh. This Career Counselling Scheme is given the name of Hum Choo Lenge Aasman Scheme. Experts will provide guidance to the students to select the appropriate future plan for them. For more details – Click Here 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
