
Rural Electrification Corporation (REC) is going to implement Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana (Saubhagya Scheme) in Madhya Pradesh. Subsequently, MP Saubhagya Scheme will provide electrical connections to around 45 lakh families in the state. This scheme is based on the lines of “Power For All” Scheme of Central Government. 
MP state govt. has launched this Saubhagya scheme on 22 December 2017. Saubhagya scheme along with the DDUGJY (Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana) will include approx. 45 lakh un-electrified households of MP. 
The state govt. provides 5000 new electricity connections in Rewa District on the launch event of this scheme. MP government will identify beneficiaries on the basis of SECC-2011 data.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

MP Saubhagya Scheme – Beneficiaries Identification
The state govt. will provide free electricity connections to the selected beneficiaries. Moreover, beneficiaries will get identified on the basis of data of Socio-Economic and Caste Census conducted in the FY 2011 (SECC-2011). Furthermore, to download the SECC-2011 data, use the link given below:-
SECC-2011 Data Download
However, the beneficiaries whose names does not appears in the SECC-2011 data can also get paid electricity connections. All such rural and urban households will receive electricity connections at just Rs. 500. 
Saubhagya Scheme
Central government launches Saubhagya Scheme – Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana earlier in the month of September. This scheme aims at providing electricity connections to every household in the country till December 2018. For this scheme, Central govt. has allotted a budget of Rs. 16,320 crore which also includes the Gross budgetary support of Rs. 12,320 crore.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The primary objective of Saubhagya Scheme is to achieve 24X7 power for all families rural and urban areas. All the states and Union Territories will achieve complete electrification till March 2019.
Central govt. has appointed REC as the nodal agency to provide coordination in the successful implementation of this scheme. Furthermore to see more details about the Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana, please click the link given below:-
Saubhagya Scheme 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
