


Table of Contents

MP Yuva Swabhiman Yojana 2019 Online Registration / ApplicationMP Yuva Swabhiman Yojana Application StatusMP Yuva Swabhimaan Yojana Mobile App
Madhya Pradesh government is inviting online registration for MP Yuva Swabhiman Yojana 2019 at yuvaswaabhiman.mp.gov.in from youths seeking employment. MP govt. has launched an Employment Scheme to ensure that youths from economically weaker sections (EWS) in urban areas would get at-least 100 days of employment every year. Moreover, jobless candidates would also get a stipend of Rs. 13,000 (Rs. 4,000 p.m). All the youths between the ages of 21 to 30 having annual family income of less than Rs 2 lakh will be eligible. Applicants can also check application status online and check operational guidelines and new rules. 
The announcement for the launch of MP Yuva Swabhiman Yojana 2019 was made by CM Kamal Nath during his Republic Day address at Chhindwara. This employment generation scheme for educated EWS youths in urban areas is somewhat similar to the mega Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) Scheme. This scheme will cost Rs. 800 crore to the state exchequer and govt. will also provide 10 days of skill development training. 
This 100 day employment guarantee scheme in Madhya Pradesh is going to provide temporary employment to jobless youths and a chance to develop their skills. Now apply online by filling Yuva Swaabhiman Scheme online application form and check eligibility and also download mobile app from google playstore.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

MP Yuva Swabhiman Yojana 2019 Online Registration / Application
Madhya Pradesh Yuva Swabhiman Yojana 2019 online registration / application process has started from 10 February 2019. As per the official statement, Yuva Swabhiman Yojana would ensure 100 days of employment every year to youths from EWS category living in urban areas. In addition to this, the unemployed candidates would get stipend of Rs. 13,000 per year for 100 days (i.e 4,000 per month). Now Apply Online for Yuva Swabhiman Yojana to avail work in local bodies and get skill development training. The direct link for registration is given below:-
http://yuvaswabhimaan.mp.gov.in/Registration.aspx
CM Kamal Nath has announced the launch of this MP employment guarantee scheme on 26 January 2019 and has launched this scheme on 7 February 2019 after the cabinet meeting. In this MP Yuva Swabhiman Scheme, only the youths b/w the age of 21 to 30 years would be eligible having total family income less than Rs. 2 lakh will be eligible. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

MP Yuva Swabhiman Yojana Application Status
This MP Yuva Svabhiman Yojana will provide temporary employment and develop skills of jobless candidates. The state govt. invites online registrations through a new dedicated portal yuvaswaabhiman.mp.gov.in. All the candidates can even check their application status directly through this link. 
MP Yuva Swabhimaan Yojana Mobile App
Candidates can even Download Yuva Swabhiman Scheme App from google playstore and access all scheme related information on their smartphones.
All the youths would be given skill training of their choice during their 100 day employment under flagship MP Yuva Swabhiman Yojana 2019. This scheme for employment in MP would enable youths to get perfection in their desired skills in order to enable them to take the benefits of job opportunities. This is a major employment guarantee scheme to tackle the problem of unemployment and enabling youths to earn and sustain their livelihood. 
Previously, CM has also changed its industrial policy to create opportunities for the youths of the Madhya Pradesh state. Moreover, the state govt. has also introduced a clause under the policy for the industries that they would only get incentives if they hire 70% of staff from Madhya Pradesh. 
CM had also announced that the state govt. is also going to constitute a committee of MPs and MLAs of Scheduled Tribe (ST) category. ST welfare works would be conducted on the basis of recommendations of this committee. The state govt. will implement scheme to open “Gaushalas” and this scheme is going to begin by the February end. MP govt. will also arrange funds from international agencies for infrastructure development in the state.
— MP Yuva Swabhiman Yojana Rules / Guidelines
— MP Yuva Swabhimaan Scheme Details





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
