
Madhya Pradesh govt. is going to launch a new scheme “Hum Choo Lenge Aasman” to provide career guidance to the students. MP state govt. would launch this Mukhymanatri Career Counselling Plan on 21 May 2018 at Model School in Bhopal. Chief Minister Mr. Shivraj Singh will talk with students on phone from 10 a.m to 11 a.m. All the students can contact CM on the telephone number 0755-2770020 or visit the website mpcareermitra.in 
Govt. will provide guidance to all the students who have recently passed Class 12th with modern techniques, technologies. Moreover, expert counselors will also provide them guidance on best suitable careers and academic options in future. 
In addition to this, all the students who have not passed (failed) in Class XI and XII exam will also get guidance on what possible options they still possess. All such candidates will be given exposure to skill development, self-employment and several other employment options.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Hum Choo Lenge Aasman Scheme – Timelines
The scheduled timings for providing career guidelines under Hum Chhoo Lenge Aasmaan as fixed by the state govt. are as follows:-


Students Category
Timelines


XII (12th) Pass Students with more than 70% Marks
21 May 2018 to 31 May 2018


XII (12th) Pass Students with less than 70% Marks
8 June 2018 to 15 June 2018


Passed in Class X (10th) but failed in Class XI (11th) and Class XII (12th)
18 June 2018 to 28 June 2018


All the 12th pass students will get guidance on various available career options while other students will get guidance on self employment, development and efficient utilization of skills for a brighter future.
Hum Choo Lenge Aasman Career Counselling Plan


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Implementation of Hum Chu Lenge Aasmaan Scheme
Dept of Higher Education, School Education & Technical Education will appoint counselors in each & every district to successfully implement Hum Chhoo Lenge Aasmaan Scheme. These counselors will be experts in their work fields and must be an accomplished person to really motivate and guide the students towards success. Even the collectors are authorized to appoint additional counselors if the need is felt. Moreover, all the District Level Committees will have to establish 2 or more than 2 counselling centres in every district.
MP govt. will focus particularly on the quality of the theoretical class and Information Technology (IT) Labs in the counselling centres. Govt. will lay special emphasis on counselling both through online and offline modes. All the District level Utkrisht Vidyalayas and District level colleges of Higher Education will serve as the counselling centres. For more details, students can directly contact Utkrisht Vidyalayas.
MP govt. has constituted a committee presided over by the Collector for successful implementation of Hum Chhoo Lenge Aasman Scheme at the district level. Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of District Panchayat, Principal of College of Higher Education Dept., Principal of District level ITIs / Engineering / Polytechnic College along with District Employment Officer (DEO) will be the members of committee. Govt. has selected District Education Officer (DEO) as the nodal officer for this Hum Chu Lenge Aasman scheme.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
