
मध्य प्रदेश वोटर लिस्ट 2020 (PDF) अब सीईओ की आधिकारिक वेबसाइट ceomadhyapradesh.nic.in पर उपलब्ध है, नयी मतदाता सूची में अपना नाम अपनी जानकारी या EPIC नंबर के आधार पर खोजें और वोटर ID कार्ड डाउनलोड करें

Table of Contents

Madhya Pradesh CEO Voter List with Photo (PDF Electoral Roll) DownloadMP Voter ID Card Download – Find Name Online in CEO MP Voter List 20201. Madhya Pradesh Voter ID Card Search by Name & Other Details2. Check Name in CEO MP Voter List using EPIC Number – Voter ID Search by EPIC No.Madhya Pradesh E-Rolls / Lok Sabha Elections & Polling Station Details
Madhya Pradesh Voter List | MP Voter List with Photo | MP Voter List Download PDF | Madhya Pradesh Voter ID Search | Madhya Pradesh Voter Card Search | Madhya Pradesh Voter List Search by Name 
Election Commission of India (ECI) has announced Lok Sabha polling dates across the country. In the Madhya Pradesh state, voting for 29 Lok Sabha seats was held in 4 phases namely Phase 4 (29 April 2019), Phase 5 (6 May 2019), Phase 6 (12 May 2019) & Phase 7 (19 May 2019). Chief Electoral Officer has published MP CEO Voter List 2020 with photo where people can perform name search in the Final PDF Electoral Roll. People can even download Madhya Pradesh New Voter ID Card at ceomadhyapradesh.nic.in
All the citizens can check their name in the district wise CEO MP Voter List 2020 with Photo and download Voter ID Card. The updated MP Electoral Rolls with Photo are available in the PDF format where people can find their name in the CEO Madhya Pradesh Voters List 2020 and can Download Voter ID Card before casting their vote.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The entire PDF file of the MP Electoral Roll (Voter List) 2020 is now available. Here citizens can perform manual searching in the MP Voter List 2020. Moreover, people can adopt a hassle free process and check their names online either by name or other details or EPIC number.
Madhya Pradesh CEO Voter List with Photo (PDF Electoral Roll) Download
Below is the complete procedure to download PDF Electoral Rolls / Final Voter List 2019-2020 Madhya Pradesh:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Firstly visit the official website ceomadhyapradesh.nic.in
At the homepage, click the “View Voter List” under ‘Voter List for General Electors’ section as shown in the figure:-
View CEO MP Voter List General Electors
CEO MP Voter List 2020 Direct Link – http://ceomadhyapradesh.nic.in/voterlist2019_MS.aspx
Here candidates will have to select the district name, assembly and click at the “Submit” button as shown below:-
Madhya Pradesh Voter List Download
Then a new page containing details of polling station name, polling station address, mother roll section will appear as shown below:-
MP Voter List 2020 Download
Then click at the “मूल सूची 2020” link to open the final MP PDF electoral rolls:-
MP Voter List with Photo

Here candidates can search their name manually in the MP Voter List Final Mother Electoral Roll 2020. 
MP Voter ID Card Download – Find Name Online in CEO MP Voter List 2020
All the people can now search their electoral details, find name online in the CEO MP Voter List 2020 and download MP Voter ID Card through the link given below:-
http://164.100.196.163/searchengine/searchen.aspx
MP Voter List Search Name
Here candidates can enter the district name or the assembly constituency name. Both these options will provide you with a choice to find your name in the CEO MP Voters List 2020 either by name or with EPIC number. 
1. Madhya Pradesh Voter ID Card Search by Name & Other Details
Below is the complete procedure to find your name online in MP CEO Voter List and download the MP Voter ID Card:-

After clicking at the above mentioned link, select the search type i.e either district wise or AC wise.
Here select the district or assembly constituency name and then click the radio button before Name. Then the Voter Card Search by Name page will appear as shown below:-
Madhya Pradesh Voter Card Search by Name
Now candidates can enter elector’s name, father / mother / husband’s name, gender, age and captcha code.

Finally, after finding their name online, candidates can download the Voter ID Card and take a printout to caste their important vote. 
2. Check Name in CEO MP Voter List using EPIC Number – Voter ID Search by EPIC No.
Candidates can search their name in the Madhya Pradesh Voter List through online mode using their Electoral Photo ID Card (EPIC) Number following the similar process as mentioned above. But a single change needs to be done i.e select the radio button before EPIC Number as shown in the figure given below:-
Madhya Pradesh Voter ID Search by EPIC Number
Candidates can select their district, enter their EPIC Number and click on the Search button to open all the details of the citizen on the screen. Finally can download this file and take a printout of their Voter ID Card.
Madhya Pradesh E-Rolls / Lok Sabha Elections & Polling Station Details
— For previous electoral roll (e-rolls) of Madhya pradesh, click at the link – MP ERolls Final Publication.
— To know more information like schedule, polling dates about the Lok Sabha Elections in Madhya Pradesh, click the link – MP General Elections 2020
— To know more about polling station in Madhya Pradesh, click at MP Polling Station Details
Furthermore, all those people whose name does not appears in the list does not have to worry. They can make online enrollment for the Madhya Pradesh Voter List and can then download their Voter ID Card. For any query, call on 1950 toll free helpline number for citizen services.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: ceomadhyapradesh.nic.in
SAVE AS PDF
