


Table of Contents

Mukhya Mantri Medhavi Vidyarthi Yojana Online RegistrationEligibility Criteria for Mukhya Mantri Medhavi Vidyarthi YojanaBenefit of Mukhya Mantri Medhavi Vidyarthi Yojana
The state govt. of Madhya Pradesh has launched a new scheme named Mukhya Mantri Medhavi Vidyarthi Yojana 2017. Online registrations for the scheme are being done through the official website scholarshipportal.mp.nic.in. This is a scholarship program for the year 2017-2018. Till now 18,404 students have registered themselves under the scheme.
Under the Mukhya Mantri Medhavi Vidyarthi Yojana, state govt. has fixed the criteria for students to avail the benefit of scheme. The Technical Education Department has the responsibility to get the students fee amount approved from the government.
Latest Update – Online Applications for Mukhyamantri Medhavi Vidyarthi (Chhatra) Yojana 2018 have been started on 16 June 2018 – View Details



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Mukhya Mantri Medhavi Vidyarthi Yojana Online Registration

Visit the official website of MP Technical Education Department at mptechedu.org or visit scholarshipportal.mp.nic.in.
Click on “Apply Online” button.
The application/registration form will appear on the screen.
Enter all required details in the registration form.
The click on “Submit” button.
After clicking the “Submit” button, your registration is successful, download the printable form from the next screen.
After downloading the form, take a print out of the form for further use.

Eligibility Criteria for Mukhya Mantri Medhavi Vidyarthi Yojana

The student must belong to Madhya Pradesh state.
The annual income of the student’s parents should be less than Rs. 6 lakh.
The student should have obtained 75 per cent or more marks in 12th Board examinations conducted by Madhya Pradesh Board of Secondary Education.
The students securing 85 per cent or more in 12th Board examinations conducted by CBSE/ICSE.
The student’s Aadhar number is also required.

Benefit of Mukhya Mantri Medhavi Vidyarthi Yojana
Students obtaining up to 50,000 rank in the Engineering – JEE mains examinations would also be eligible for admission to Government or non-Government engineering colleges. Entire fees of Government college will be provided under the scheme. In private colleges, Government will bear maximum of Rs. 1.5 lakh or the actual fees, whichever is lower. The fee would be excluding the Mess fee and caution money in both govt. and private colleges.
Students taking admissions in MBBS in any govt. or private college of state of central govt. can avail the benefits of Mukhyamantri Medhavi Vidyarthi Yojana. The admissions in MBBS must be based on the rank achieved in Medical-National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET). In case of admission in government or private colleges, the entire fee and charges would be borne by the state govt.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Course Covered under MMMVY
– Engineering courses
– Medical courses
– Law courses
– Integrated post Graduation courses from SPA Bhopal or IIM Indore
– Graduation/Under Graduation courses- B.SC., B.COM, Nursing, Polytechnic etc.
To get more detail about the scheme in Hindi click on below link
Download PDF file





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
