
Pradhan Mantri Narendra Modi is going to inaugurate “MP Ki Apni Bus – Sutra Sewa Scheme” on 23 June 2018 at Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, Indore. This ambitious Urban Transport Scheme will connect divisional headquarters and remote areas to Bhopal (State’s Capital). Initially, this economical bus service ‘Sutra Seva’ scheme will be introduced in 20 selected cities in Madhya Pradesh. 
This scheme will meet the demand for government buses and to fulfill the needs of public transportation in the state. MP Ki Apni Bus – Sutra Sewa Scheme will operate with the assistance from the local bodies, state govt. and central government (AMRUT Yojana) in private partnership mode.
Urban Development Department will operate reliable, luxury and economical buses between the cities. The dept. will operate these buses for inter city and intra cities travel. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

MP Ki Apni Bus – Sutra Sewa Scheme 2018
The important features and highlights of this MP Ki Apni Bus – Sutra Sewa Scheme are as follows:-

In the first phase, the state govt. will introduce this Sutra Seva – MP Ki Apni Bus Scheme in 20 selected cities.
Govt. will run 127 buses in 16 municipal corporations and 4 municipalities – Gwalior, Morena, Ujjain, Devas, Bhopal, Indore, Jabalpur, Rewa, Ratlam, Burahanpur, Singrauli, Katni, Chhindwada, Khandwa and Satna (municipal corporations) and Bhind, Shivpuri, Guna and Vidisha (municipalities).
Urban Development & Housing Department will provide this economical bus service inside and outside the cities.
This will be done under the “Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) Scheme” through Private Partnership.
To provide safe and better transport services, govt. will equip these buses with advance technology like GPS, PIS and PAS.
For women security, there will be panic buttons and camera in all these buses and these will be linked with the control command centers.
All the buses will possess a Public Grievance System and Head Control Command Center.
The facility of online ticket booking through mobile phones or at the official website will also remain available.

PM Modi will visit Indore and Rajgarh districts of MP on 23 June 2018. Urban Development Department has also planned to hire 700 buses and the tender process is also complete.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

PM Modi’s Visit to MP – Developmental Works
Pradhan Mantri is going to make a one day visit to the Indore and Rajgarh District in MP. He will inaugurate various other developmental works which are listed below:- 

PM Modi will launch several other projects like Mohanpura Irrigation Project worth Rs. 3,866 core in Rajgarh district. This irrigation project will benefit 727 villages in Madhya Pradesh.
In Indore, PM Modi will dedicate various developmental works worth Rs. 4713.75 crore
PM will also provide awards to the winners of National Cleanliness Survey – Swachh Survekshan 2018. Indore, Bhopal & Chandigarh have secured first 3 positions in the nation wide survey.
Central govt. will also hand over the houses to more than 1 lakh poor people. Around 1,00,219 Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana – PMAY Beneficiaries will be given the keys of their new houses to perform Griha Pravesh (House entrance) ceremony.
Under Smart City Mission, PM will dedicate 23 developmental projects worth Rs. 278.26 crore in Indore, Bhopal, Jabalpur, Gwalior & Ujjain.
PM Modi will also inaugurate drinking water schemes for 14 urban areas – Dharampuri Municipal Council (Dhar distric), Raisen Municipal Council, Begumganj, Obaidullaganj, Berasia (Bhopal), Athner (Betul), Badhvad (Ratlam), Dindori, Lakhnadon (Seoni), Narsinghpur, Sabalgarh, Bamor, Poursa (Morena) and Bamouri (Shahdol)

In addition to all the above developmental works, govt. will also provide Parks developed under AMRUT Yojana in 10 urban areas. These areas includes Khandwa, Burhanpur, Khargone, Sehore, Hoshangabad, Bhopal, Pithampur, Guna, Gwalior, Rewa.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
