


Table of Contents

MP Steam Curriculum 2020 in All Govt. SchoolsMP STEAM Curriculum Budget, Syllabus & ImplementationMP Steam Curriculum 2020-21 Benefits
Madhya Pradesh govt. is going to start MP Steam Curriculum 2020 in all the state run government schools. STEAM stands for Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Mathematics. MP would be the 1st state in the country to implement Steam curriculum. If implemented properly, the students studying in 1.21 lakh govt. schools of the state would be benefited from MP Steam Scheme.
The STEAM model of education is a next step forward after STEM which is a curriculum based on teaching students in 4 specific disciplines namely Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics. STEM curriculum was based on teaching students in an interdisciplinary and applied approach. 
MP STEAM curriculum is the need of the hour to prepare students for competition in present times.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

MP Steam Curriculum 2020 in All Govt. Schools
School Education department is all set to introduce MP Steam Curriculum 2020. After completion of orientation by STEAM experts from USA, Korea and other countries, STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Mathematics) module is to be started in private and government schools in FY 2020. MP is the first state to implement STEAM learning method in schools in India.
Teachers will get 1 month time before end of academic session 2019-20 to hold interactive session with students. Revision of course and remedial classes will be held in accordance with the STEAM curriculum during that period. The new 2020-21 academic session will see introduction of colorful puzzles in classes through which children will answer question related to daily life in a creative way.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

MP Steam Curriculum will make learning process interesting as there would be an amalgamation of mathematics and arts. Objects available around would be used for demonstration and teaching purposes. STEAM is a successful education module that develops educational insights of students in a natural way and identify their inclination at early ages.
MP STEAM Curriculum Budget, Syllabus & Implementation
School education department will have to make moderate modifications in the syllabus and budget provisions to implement MP Steam Curriculum 2020-21. In 1st phase, this module would be introduced in some schools at district level across the state which would be extended later in next phase depending on the results. Teachers from tehsil and blocks will attend these STEAM workshops at district level and get firsthand experience of the new concept. These teachers are going to replicate Steam Curriculum then in their schools.
MP Steam Curriculum 2020-21 Benefits
STEAM learning gains importance as 5 disciplines of science, technology, engineering, arts and mathematics are used in everyday activities. They promote problem solving, creative and analytical thinking by holding interesting activities. Many of the jobs that effect our economy include STEAM subjects. Students prepared through this learning module have higher chances of getting employment than others.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://www.freepressjournal.in/bhopal/first-in-the-country-mp-schools-all-set-to-introduce-steam-in-2020
SAVE AS PDF
