


Table of Contents

MP Rajya Bimary Sahayata Nidhi Yojana Application ProcedureRajya Bimari Sahayata Nidhi Yojana – Eligibility CriteriaRBSNY Hospitals ListRBSNY ImplementationRates ListMP Rajya Bimari Sahayata Nidhi Yojana Application Status
Madhya Pradesh Government is inviting application forms for the Rajya Bimari Sahayata Nidhi Yojana. Subsequently, all the families possessing BPL card will get free medical treatment in govt. hospitals. Accordingly, all the poor people holding BPL Card who are unable to afford costly treatment in the private hospitals can avail the benefits of this scheme. Interested and eligible candidates can download the application form through the official website www.health.mp.gov.in
This scheme will cover 13 dangerous diseases which requires surgery for free medical treatment of BPL people. Henceforth, govt. will provide financial support of Rs. 25,000 to Rs. 2 lakh for medical treatment. Accordingly, govt. will spend Rs 10 crore on this scheme through Nationalized Banks.
Moreover, only one family member of the family can avail the grant of maximum Rs. 2 lakh. The state govt. will give the amount directly to the hospitals where a patient seeking treatment is referred.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

MP Rajya Bimary Sahayata Nidhi Yojana Application Procedure
The complete procedure to download the application form has been specified below:-


Firstly visit the official website health.mp.gov.in
Subsequently on the homepage, click the “राज्य बीमारी सहायता निधि [SIAF]” link under the ‘Order’ section or directly click this link
Then candidates have to click the “Application Format in Hindi with Details” link under ‘Free Medical Assistance to the Domicile’ section or directly click – Download Rajya Bimary Sahayata Nidhi Yojana Application Form
Afterwards, the “Application Form” will appear as shown below:-
MP Rajya Bimari Sahayata Nidhi Yojana Application Form
Now candidates can download the application form, enter all the necessary details and submit it to the concerned department to complete the application process.
Furthermore, candidates can take a printout of the completed application form and keep it for future reference.

Candidates can also get this application form in the standard form at the Office of District Collector, Office of the Chief Medical and Health Officer, Office of the District Civil Surgeon and District hospital.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Rajya Bimari Sahayata Nidhi Yojana – Eligibility Criteria
The candidates must fulfill the following criteria to become eligible for free treatment as follows:-
a) The candidate must be a permanent resident of Madhya Pradesh.
b) Candidate must belong to a BPL Poverty Line Family.
c) This Yojana will cover total 20 diseases under this scheme.
d) Candidates must not get covered previously under any other state or central govt. scheme.
RBSNY Hospitals List
— The candidates can check the complete list of hospitals in MP using the link given below:-
SIAF Hospitals List-2017
— Moreover, candidates can see the list of hospitals out of the state of MP using the link given below:-
SIAF Hospitals List-2017 (Out of State) 
RBSNY Implementation
All the applicants have to submit the application form in name of Director Public Health & FW to the Office of Collector. Subsequently, Collector/ Sub-Divisional Magistrate will issue BPL certificate, Residential Certificate and Civil Surgeon certificate.
Afterwards, he will send the application form along with the disease name and grant amount to the Secretary, SIAF. Sub Committee will examine the application form for approval. Finally, Management Committee of Public Health and Family Welfare will the final sanction for the respective case.
Rates List
— The candidates can see the rate list for the following diseases using the link given below:-
SIAF Rate List 2017
— The rate list will appear as shown below:-
MP Rajya Bimari Sahayata Nidhi Yojana Rate List
MP Rajya Bimari Sahayata Nidhi Yojana Application Status
The candidates can track the application status of the application form:-

Approved Case – Govt. will issue an order to the Patient / Collector / Civil Surgeon and cheque for the medical treatment to the concerned Hospital / Institution. Subsequently, patient can get free treatment in these hospitals.
Case Evaluation – Govt. will refer the treatment case to medical college to evaluate the case and re-assessment of the total cost. Afterwards, SIF Office will again receive the case.
Rejected Case – All the cases not complying to the norms / category will get rejected.
All the BPL candidates who are unable to afford costly treatments can apply for this free health treatment scheme and avail the benefits of the Rajya Bimari Sahayata Nidhi Yojana.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
