


Table of Contents

MP Jai Kisan Rin Mukti Yojana Application Form DownloadMP Jai Kisan Rin Mukti Yojana for FarmersMP Jai Kisan Rin Mukti Yojana 2019 Highlights
Madhya Pradesh govt. has launched Jai Kisan Rin Mukti Yojana on 15 January 2019 to waive off loans of farmers taken from various banks. All the farmers who wants to take benefits of MP Kisan Karz Mafi Yojana can download and fill MP Jai Kisan Fasal Rin Mafi Yojana application forms of green, pink (gulabi) and white color. Under this MP Farm Loan Waiver Scheme, the state govt. will waive off loans upto Rs. 2 lakh of small and marginal farmers taken from cooperative banks, regional rural banks and nationalized banks. 
MP Farm loan Waiver Scheme is the biggest debt waiver scheme in the state so far with budgetary allocation of Rs. 50,000 crore. MP Jai Kisan Rin Mukti Yojana 2019 is a huge milestone in the state’s history as this Kisan Karj Mafi scheme is going to benefit around 55 lakh small and marginal farmers. MP Kisaan Karja Mafi Yojana will now be implemented by this budgetary provision for bank loans taken till 12 December 2018 (revised date).
CM Kamal Nath wants to fulfill his pre-poll promise of waiving off crop loans of farmers in debt and distress. For this Kisaan Karz Mafi scheme, CM had already signed the file after taking oath.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

MP Jai Kisan Rin Mukti Yojana Application Form Download
To avail the benefits of Madhya Pradesh Jai Kisan Rin Mukti Yojana 2019, farmers will have to fill forms of 3 different colours application forms which are described below:-

Green Form – For those farmers whose bank account is linked to Aadhaar and have taken farm loans.
Pink Form – For any complaint or claim on fasal rin mochan yojana, farmers can fill gulabi form.
White Form – For farmers whose bank account is NOT linked to Aadhaar and have taken farm loans.

जय किसान ऋण मुक्ति योजना के लिए तीन रंग के आवेदन फॉर्म निर्धारित किए गए हैं।


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

आधार से जुड़े फसल ऋण खातों के लिए हरे रंग का आवेदन फॉर्म निर्धारित। pic.twitter.com/4bkOaMUaYa
— CMO Madhya Pradesh (@CMMadhyaPradesh) January 15, 2019


जय किसान ऋण मुक्ति योजना के लिए तीन रंग के आवेदन फॉर्म निर्धारित किए गए हैं। 
आधार से नहीं जुड़े फसल ऋण खातों के लिये सफेद रंग का आवेदन फॉर्म निर्धारित। pic.twitter.com/gaEHno67NM
— CMO Madhya Pradesh (@CMMadhyaPradesh) January 15, 2019

Application Form – The application cum declaration form will appear as shown below:-

मध्यप्रदेश की अर्थव्यवस्था की नींव कृषि क्षेत्र है। जय किसान ऋण मुक्ति योजना किसानों के लिए तोहफा नहीं बल्कि उनकी आर्थिक मजबूती के लिए एक निवेश है- श्री कमल नाथ, सीएमलिंक पर क्लिक कर सुनें किसानों के लिए मुख्यमंत्री श्री कमल नाथ का पूरा संदेशhttps://t.co/0pr2kSDUts pic.twitter.com/oeWsoVOhqG
— CMO Madhya Pradesh (@CMMadhyaPradesh) January 15, 2019


All the candidates can download the application form and avail the benefits of Kisan Karz Mafi Scheme in Madhya Pradesh.
MP Jai Kisan Rin Mukti Yojana for Farmers
To waive off crop loans upto Rs. 2 lakh of farmers under MP Farm Loan Waiver Scheme, cabinet has already given its nod on 5 January 2019. MP Jai Kisan Rin Mukti Yojana 2019 will waive off bank loans taken till revised cut-off date 12 December 2018 (previously 31 March 2018). Congress Party had previously announced that govt. will start Kisan Karz Mafi Yojana within 10 days in case of being voted to power to reduce the debt and distress of farmers. Those farmers who want to take benefits of MP Farm Loan Waiver Scheme can fill green, pink and white application form. 

मुख्यमंत्री श्री कमल नाथ ने फसल ऋण माफी योजना के आवेदन प्रक्रिया का किया शुभारंभ … pic.twitter.com/wir3HEu4tH
— CMO Madhya Pradesh (@CMMadhyaPradesh) January 15, 2019

Around 55 lakh farmers are going to be covered under this Kisaan Karj Mafi Scheme in Madhya Pradesh. The economy of the state depends heavily on the agriculture sector and around 70% people are associated with the agriculture and allied sectors directly or indirectly. 
Henceforth, MP Kisan Karz Mafi Scheme is an investment in the state’s economy which can’t be strengthened without the involvement of farmers. For this MP Farm Loan Waiver Scheme 2019, the state exchequer will have to bear a burden of around Rs. 50,000 crore. The loan waiver forms could be submitted till February 5 and farmers would start getting the benefits from 22 February 2019.
MP Jai Kisan Rin Mukti Green / White / Gulabi Form
MP Jai Kisan Rin Mukti Yojana 2019 Highlights
Here is the complete features and highlights of this MP Kisan Karz Mafi Yojana 2019:-


Scheme Name – MP Jai Kisan Rin Mukti Yojana


Other Names
Farm Loan Waiver Scheme, Kisan Karz Mafi Scheme, Fasal Rin Mafi Scheme, Karja Maafi Scheme, Crop Loan Waiver Scheme


Announce Date
17 December 2018 (1st file signed by CM Kamal Nath)


Cabinet Approval
5 January 2019


Launch Date
15 January 2019


Total beneficiaries
55 lakh small and marginal farmers


Loan Waiver Amount
Farm Loans upto Rs. 2 lakh


Banks Covered
Cooperative, Regional Rural banks, Nationalized Banks


Budgetary Provision
Rs. 50,000 crore


Application Forms
Available in 3 colours – Green, Pink (Gulabi), White


Benefits Availed From
22 February 2019


All the farmers who have registered themselves to pay GST and are paying income tax, cannot avail benefits under this Farm Loan Waiver Scheme in Madhya Pradesh. MP Chief Minister Kamal Nath said that the current govt. is working towards the welfare of farmers and will give its report card to the public in the next 5 years.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
