


Table of Contents

Class Wise MP Scholarship Schemes List 2018-19List of All Scholarship Schemes For Class 1st to Class 12th StudentsFind Scholarship Scheme Name & Amount by Eligibility CriteriaScholarship Portal Registration Form / Login / Application Status
Madhya Pradesh govt. is providing scholarships to the students to ensure that the money does not becomes a problem in pursuing education. Here we are providing the Complete List of Class Wise Scholarship Schemes available at Shiksha Portal. For all the students of Class 1st to Class 12th, govt. is providing financial assistance under various schemes as scholarship amount. Check All MP Govt. Scholarship Schemes List 2018-19 (Class Wise) at shikshaportal.mp.gov.in
All scholarship schemes are categorized into different groups – A, B, C, D, E. Every candidate will receive the benefit of any one scheme from the group on the basis of their eligibility. If a candidate is qualified for more than 1 scholarship scheme in a group, then the benefit of scheme with maximum amount will be provided to the students. 
Moreover, candidates can enter their details at Shiksha Portal to check their eligibility and the particular scheme for which the student is qualified. The students can also directly calculate the scholarship scheme along with amount for which they are applicable.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Class Wise MP Scholarship Schemes List 2018-19
Below is the complete procedure to Find List of Complete Class Wise Scholarship Schemes for FY 2018-19:-

Visit the official Shiksha Portal at shikshaportal.mp.gov.in
On the MP Scholarship Portal homepage, click at the “छात्रवृति की योजनाएं” section as shown below:-
MP Scholarship Portal Homepage
This will open a new page to View Class Wise Scholarships. Here students can “Search Criteria By Class” as it appears below:-
Shiksha Portal Schemes Criteria By Class
Here select the “Academic Year” and your “Class” for which the student is seeking scholarship. The Group Wise Name of Scholarship Schemes for the specific classes will appear as below:-
MP Scholarship Portal Class Wise Scholarships
Here candidates can search manually that for which scholarship scheme he / she is eligible and also know the scholarship amount.

To know the details of all the Scholarship Schemes available on the Madhya Pradesh, candidates can see complete list of schemes.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

List of All Scholarship Schemes For Class 1st to Class 12th Students
All the students can access the Schemes Dashboard for all the Scholarship Schemes for all academic years. All the schemes at Shiksha Portal whose name appears in the Class Wise Scholarship Schemes List can check further details here:- 

All the candidates can see the MP All Scholarship Schemes List through this link – MP Shiksha Portal – All Scholarship Schemes List 
The table of all schemes will appear as shown below:-
MP Scholarship Schemes List

Candidates can see the complete description, objective, eligibility, registration format, application form by clicking at the links in this list. 
Find Scholarship Scheme Name & Amount by Eligibility Criteria
All the eligible students can find the name and scholarship amount of the scheme for which these students are eligible using the link given below:- 

Check Scholarship Scheme Name & Amount for which Student is Eligible
Here the form to enter the eligibility criteria will appear as follows:-
Find Scholarship Name Eligibility Criteria
Now enter all the details and click at the “अपना हक़ जाने” button to know the scheme for which the student is applicable along with the scholarship amount.

Also fill the MP Scholarship Portal Registration Form, make Login and Make Application Status. 
Scholarship Portal Registration Form / Login / Application Status
All the students can now fill the Registration Form for to apply online for scholarships. Here we are providing you the links for Registration Form, Login and Checking Application Status:-
— Scholarship Portal Registration Form – Apply Online
— Scholarship Portal Login – Make Login
— MP Scholarship Password Recovery – Recover Forgot Password
— MP Scholarship Portal Name Search – Search Your Name
— Track Scholarship Application Status – Check Status





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
