


Table of Contents

MP Indira Grah Jyoti Yojana 2019Madhya Pradesh IGJY Scheme Eligibility CriteriaIndira Grah Jyoti Yojna Benefits
Madhya Pradesh govt. has launched Indira Grah Jyoti Yojana 2019 for all citizens. Under this IGJY scheme, 100 units of power would be provided to all households at Rs. 100. In case the family consumes more than 100 units in a month, then they will have to pay for the entire consumption at the existing rate. MP Indira Grah Yojna 2019 would cost the state government around Rs. 2,226 crore. 
In addition to the Indira Grah Jyoti Yojana, the state govt. of Madhya Pradesh has also launched Yuva Swabhiman Yojana. Under MP Yuva Swabhiman Scheme, all the unemployed urban youths will get 100 days of guaranteed employment in 1 year and stipend at Rs. 13,000 per month. All the youths b/w 21 to 30 years of age with annual family income of less than Rs. 2 lakh are eligible and this scheme will cost Rs. 800 crore to MP government.
The primary objective of Indira Grah Jyoti Scheme is to provide financial assistance to the citizens of the state specially belonging to poor families. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

MP Indira Grah Jyoti Yojana 2019
Madhya Pradesh cabinet has approved Indira Grah Jyoti Yojana (IGJY) in order to provide subsidized electricity to all families in the state. All the consumer families which have less than 100 units consumption of electricity every month will just have to pay Rs. 100 only. IGJY scheme is for all the general electricity consumers in MP which is applicable for all sections of the society.
MP Indira Grah Jyoti Yojana (IGJY) is going to reduce the burden of increasing electricity bills. Indira Grah Jyoti Scheme would also encourage people to save electricity and thus will reduce the overall power consumption.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Madhya Pradesh IGJY Scheme Eligibility Criteria
Below is the complete eligibility criteria to become eligible for subsidy in power connections:-

IGJY Scheme is applicable only for the Madhya Pradesh citizens.
All the general electricity consumers which consumes less than 100 units every month.
Beneficiaries of the previous Saral Scheme and Sambhal Yojana are also eligible.

Indira Grah Jyoti Yojna Benefits
The most important benefit of IGJY scheme is for small power consuming families. These families will now have to pay monthly electricity bill of only Rs. 100 for less than 100 unit consumption. In case the power consumption is more than 100 units, then consumer needs to pay complete electricity bill at the existing standard rates. The IGJY Scheme is going to cost Rs. 2,226 crore to the state government. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
