


Table of Contents

My MP Rojgar Portal Online Registration Form 2020-21My MP Rojgar Portal Registration (Panjiyan) for EmployersNational Career Service (NCS)Job Opportunities and Self Employment SchemesReferences
Madhya Pradesh govt. has launched My MP Rojgar Portal 2020 at mprojgar.gov.in to provide employment opportunities to youths. Any certificate, diploma or degree holder can make registration of their profile for upcoming job fair (Rojgar Mela) at this MP Employment Portal. This will enable the students to get appropriate job as per their Job Role, Job Preferences and Sector. All Job Seekers will regularly get updates of latest govt. / private vacancies. Interested candidates can make My MP Rojgar Portal Online Registration (Panjiyan) at the official website.
Only the registered candidates at My MP Rojgar Portal can fill the Rojgar Mela online application form for upcoming jobs. Employers can also make online registration for organizing job fairs in Madhya Pradesh at the portal to hire employees as per their requirements. Companies can view the details of all the candidates in a list format from which they can select the candidates and call them for an interview. 
All the job seekers can make online MP Rojgar Portal panjiyan (registration) to get suitable jobs and salary as per their qualifications. Even the job applicants can update their personal profile at regular intervals.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

My MP Rojgar Portal Online Registration Form 2020-21
My MP Rojgar Portal comprises of 38 sectors including Healthcare, Infrastructure, Life Science, Information Technology etc. There are 180 Job Roles which are integrated in these sectors. All Job Roles are classified into 3 categories namely Agriculture, Manufacturing & Banking, Financial Services & Insurance. The complete procedure to make Online Registration for Candidates is given below:-

Visit the official My MP Rojgar Portal mprojgar.gov.in
On the homepage, click at the “आवेदक पंजीयन के लिए क्लिक करें” under “आवेदक के लिए” section present at the right side of the page.
Direct Link – All the job seekers can make online panjiyan / registration directly through this link – MP Rojgar Portal Job-Seeker Registration
The “MP Rojgar Online Registration Form” will appear as shown below:-
MP Rojgar Registration Form Jobseeker
Here jobseekers can fill all the details correctly and click at the “Submit” button to complete the Registration Process. After the registration process is over, then the candidate can make My MP Rojgar Portal Login and fill the application form for desired job.

Till date, there are 23,37,389 registered jobseekers on this portal. All the candidates can also use the given links – Know Your Registration Number, Profile Update, Forgot Your Username or Password / Renewal of Registration / Registration Transfer, User Manual.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

My MP Rojgar Portal Registration (Panjiyan) for Employers
All the employers can also make panjiyan / registration at the official portal through the link given below:-

My MP Rojgar Portal Registration Employers
The Online Registration Form for Employers will appear as follows:-
MP Rojgar Registration Form Employers

Employers can also use the given links – Login / Know Your Registration Number / List of Applicants 
National Career Service (NCS)
The below links are useful for the Employers and Jobseekers under National Career Service (NCS):-
— National Career Service (NCS) Login & Registration Number
— NCS Jobseeker User Manual
— Employers User Manual
— National Career Service (NCS) Employer Login
— National Career Service for Employers
Job Opportunities and Self Employment Schemes
The list of vacancies is available at the “Vacancy Advertisement Portal” which jobseeker must see regularly. To access the list of vacancies, click at the link – MP Vacancy Advertisement Portal
Even the jobseekers can access various schemes at the My MP Rojgar Portal as listed below:-
— Job Fair Scheme
— Self Employment Schemes
— Skill Development Schemes
— Career Counselling Scheme
References
— Candidates can see the list of forthcoming job fairs – Rojgar Panchayat 2020
— For more details, visit the official website – http://www.mprojgar.gov.in/indexh.aspx





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
