
Madhya Pradesh govt. has decided to provide incentives to the farmers on sale of their crops under Mukhyamantri Krishak Samridhi Yojana. All the farmers who have sell their wheat crops between 15 March to 26 May 2018 below / above minimum support price (MSP) will get protsahan rashi of Rs. 265 per quintal. In addition, all farmers who have make sale of Chana, Masoor and Sarso at any price between 10 April and 9 June 2018 will get Rs. 100 per quintal as encouragement amount.
Incentives of Rs. 265 / quintal for selling of wheat crops will get credited into the registered farmers account till 10 June 2018 under Mukyamantri Krishak Samriddhi Yojana (MKSY). Moreover, protsahan rashi of Rs. 100 / quintal for chana, masoor and sarso will also get credited in the month of June directly into the farmer’s account.
All the farmers who have worked so hard in fields to produce wheat, chana, masoor, sarso will now get this extra rewards from the state government. This is a major step to reduce the number of suicides of farmers in MP and to raise their living standards. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

MP Mukhyamantri Krishak Samridhi Yojana – Incentives for Farmers
The state govt. of MP will provide incentives / encouragement assistance to farmers for their agricultural produce:-

Incentives on Selling of Wheat Crops – All the farmers who sale their wheat crops between 15 March 2018 to 26 May 2018 in any mandi will get Rs. 265 / quintal. This amount will be credited into the farmers account till 10 June 2018. For this, farmers need to submit the following documents before 26 May 2018 in the mandi:-

Acquirement (Uparjan) Registration Receipt
Copy of Aadhaar Card
Sale Receipt of wheat comprising of the quantity of wheat which a farmer sells.


MP Mukhyamantri Krishak Samriddhi Yojana Incentives Wheat
Incentives on Selling of Chana, Masoor & Sarso – All the farmers who sell their chana, masoor, sarso crops between 10 April 2018 to 9 June 2018 in any mandi will get Rs. 100 / quintal. This amount will be credited into the farmers bank account in the month of June 2018. For this, farmers need to submit the following documents before 9 June 2018 in the mandi:-

Acquirement (Uparjan) Registration Receipt
Copy of Aadhaar Card
Sale Receipt of chana, masoor and sarso comprising of the quantity which a farmer sells.


MP Mukhyamantri Krishak Samridhi Yojana Incentives Chana Masoor Sarso

Farmers will get benefited from this move of the MP state government. All the farmers who have made sale of their agricultural produce will now appropriate prices of their crops. This protsahan amount will encourage farmers to produce crops in large amount in the next fiscal year. Moreover, this scheme will ensure food security in the state along with raising the living standards of farmers. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Other Schemes for Farmers Welfare in MP
MP govt. has launched various other schemes for welfare of farmers:-

Krishak Sahakari Rin Mitra Yojana Madhya Pradesh – View Details
Krishi Rin Samadhan Yojana (Kisan Karj Rahat) for Farmers – View Details
MP Bhavantar Bhugtan Yojana (Price Deficit Scheme) – View Details






(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
