
Madhya Pradesh govt. is going to provide free admissions to the children of unorganised labourers in colleges. This admission to students from workers family will be given under the Mukhyamantri Jan Kalyan (Shiksha Protsahan) Yojana. The state govt. has given the implementation directives for the successful implementation of Nishulk Uchcha Shiksha Yojana 2018-19 in E-Pravesh process.
All the students belonging to the poor sections of the societies (family of unorganized workers) can get admission at graduation and PG level. They can get admissions in any college and universities either govt. / private / govt. aided as per their choice.
At the time of admission, verification of the Labourer document of the parents will be done. After which, candidate will get free admission. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Mukhyamantri Jan Kalyan (Shiksha Protsahan) Yojana 2018-19
The important features and highlights of this Nishulk Uchcha Shiksha Yojana 2018-19 are as follows:-

MP govt. has decided to implement Nishulk Uchcha Shiksha Yojana 2018-19 in all the government universities, government colleges and government aided private colleges.
Free Admissions at Graduation Level – The state govt. will ensure free admissions to the children of unorganized workers in 1st, 2nd and 3rd year at the graduate level.
Free Admissions at Post-Graduation Level – MP govt. will ensure that students of unorganized laborers gets admission in 1st and 2nd year of regular and self financed courses at PG level.
MP Nishulk Uchcha Shiksha Yojana 2018-19

The state govt. has given instructions to the Principals of all the Government / Private and Govt. Aided colleges and Registrars of the Universities. For complete notification and other details, click the link – Mukhyamantri Jan Kalyan (Shiksha Protsahan) Yojana 2018-19


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

MP Nishulk Uchcha Shiksha Yojana 2018-19 – Eligibility
The candidates must fulfill the eligibility criteria to avail the free admission facility in reputed colleges:-

To avail the free admission facility for their children, the parents of the students must be registered with the Labour department as an unorganized labourer.
Upon the verification of the eligibility criteria, the students of such workers will get admission in any college of their choice.

Govt. will widely make publicity of details of provisions of the Mukhya Mantri Jan-Kalyan (Shiksha Protsahan) Yojana among the students. For more details – Latest Updates of Govt. Schemes for Education in MP 
Also Read – Mukhyamantri Jan Kalyan Yojana – Govt. to Pay Admission Fees of Poor Students





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
