


Table of Contents

MP Dwar Praday Yojana 2020 – Aapki Sarkar Aapke DwaarWhy Indore is Selected First for MP Dwaar Praday Yojana 2020Indore 311 Mobile App Launched
Madhya Pradesh govt. has launched MP Dwar Praday Yojana (द्वार प्रदाय योजना) 2020 for home delivery of schemes and services. Apki Sarkar Aapke Dwaar initiative is similar to the one already existing in Delhi in the form of Doorstep Delivery Scheme. MP Dwaar Praday Yojna 2020 will address common man problems and all the services would be home delivered on payment of just Rs. 50. Chief Minister Kamal Nath has launched Your Government At Your Door Scheme in the Indore city on pilot basis.
MP Dwaar Praday Yojana 2020 would be introduced under the Public Services Delivery Guarantee Act. All the applicants would be able to apply online for these services at the Lok Seva Kendra or its dedicated portal. The certificate will reach your home only hours after applying. This scheme will realize CM Kamal Nath dream to ensure that MP is compared with leading states of India rather than backward and small states.
The Aapki Sarkar Aapke Dwaar initiative is important for the progress of both government and citizens. Moreover, this Dwar Praday Yojana will bring a revolutionary change in thinking and attitude of people as collective efforts will bring better results.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

MP Dwar Praday Yojana 2020 – Aapki Sarkar Aapke Dwaar
Under the flagship MP Dwar Praday Yojana 2020, the state govt. will provide five services within 24 hours to citizens. This Doorstep delivery of schemes and services initiative will lead to transformation of identity of the state. By the Appki Sarkar Aapke Dwaar Scheme, there would be a complete change in the attitude and work culture of the government and administration along with people which would be helpful in maintaining balance with present time. Five services to be provided at doorstep in 24 hours under Dwaar Praday Yojana are as follows:-

Income certificate
Domicile certificate
Birth certificate
Death certificate
Copy of Khasra-Khatoni
For this, after selecting the option, citizens are required to apply on Lok Seva Kendra or its portal. Services will be provided through MP Aapki Sarkar Aapke Dwaar Yojana 2020 under the Public Service Guarantee Act.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Under the Public Service Guarantee Scheme, the number of public service centers has been increased from 326 to 426 to meet people requirements speedily. Through these Lok Seva Kendras, MP govt. is providing 464 services to the people of the state for 300 days continuously. The service centers receive 25K to 30K applications everyday, which are immediately sent to the concerned departments for redressal within the stipulated period.

गणतंत्र दिवस पर मुख्यमंत्री श्री कमल नाथ का संदेश
आम जनता की समस्याओं को शीघ्रता से निपटाने के लिए 'आपकी सरकार-आपके द्वार' कार्यक्रम प्रारंभ किया गया है। इस कार्यक्रम में सरकारी अमला गाँवों में जाकर जन-समस्याओं को हल कर रहा है। #RepublicDay pic.twitter.com/oiAetFyagP
— CMO Madhya Pradesh (@CMMadhyaPradesh) January 26, 2020
 
CM is giving credible system to the people of MP and is also building investors confidence at the national and international level. CM will soon give a new gift in the interests of mill labourers and for legalizing the illegal colonies.
Why Indore is Selected First for MP Dwaar Praday Yojana 2020
Indore is at the top in the entire country in terms of cleanliness. This happens with the involvement of people along with the local administration. So through the Dwar Praday Yojana, the government wants to work closely with the people so that we could be proud of the entire state.
Around 70% of the population is dependent on agriculture, so purchasing power of farmers needs to be raised. This purchasing power will boost business of our grocery shops and small trade and businesses. At the same time, large employment opportunities will also be available. So, the govt. is creating a new map of Madhya Pradesh on the strength of the investment friendly state and the power that this government has received from the people of the state.
Indore 311 Mobile App Launched
On the launch event of Dwaar Praday Yojana, CM also launched Indore 311 App of Indore Municipal Corporation. After downloading this app, citizens will be able to get birth, death and marriage registration certificates. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://indiaeducationdiary.in/chief-minister-kamal-nath-dedicates-dwaar-praday-yojana-in-indore/
SAVE AS PDF
