
Madhya Pradesh government has decided to firstly freeze and then provide Electricity Bill Dues Waiver of 77 lakh beneficiaries registered under Mukhyamantri Jan Kalyan Yojana (MJKY). Accordingly, the state govt. will ensure power supply to these beneficiaries at a flat rate of Rs. 200 per month for domestic use. CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan will launch Electricity at Rs. 200 under MJKY Scheme in MP on 13 June 2018. 
MP govt. has recently launched Mukhya Mantri Jan Kalyan Yojana (MMJKY) to provide benefits to the left out people of other schemes like PM Awas Yojana, Ujjwala Yojana, Ladli Laxmi Yojana, Charan Paduka Yojana. Under MMJKY, govt. will also provide free medical treatment to labourers and BPL Families. 
The decision is taken at the cabinet meeting headed by Chief Minister. All the electricity bill dues till 30 June 2018 will be waived and govt. will start implementation of ensuring power supply to beneficiary households for domestic consumption at Rs. 200 per month from 1 July 2018. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Electricity Bill at Rs. 200 Registration under Mukhyamantri Jan Kalyan Yojana in MP
Madhya Pradesh govt. will invite Electricity Bill Dues Waiver Request Registration Form under the new scheme. This scheme will get implemented from 13 June 2018. All the registered beneficiaries under the Mukhyamantri Jan Kalyan Yojana (MJKY) will have to submit their electricity bills as documentary evidence. 
Initially, the electricity bill dues will firstly be frozen and later waived off. Complete documentation process will a month long process and will occur between July and August 2018. After July, all the beneficiaries will be able to utilize the power supply at a nominal price of Rs. 200.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

All the beneficiaries will then have to pay Rs. 200 for running 1 fan, one bulb and a television. MP govt. has made a provision of Rs. 1806 crore as subsidy to power distribution companies. This provision is for the payment of surcharge and dues of the beneficiaries till 30 June 2018. The state govt. expects that this Electricity Dues Waiver Scheme will cost Rs. 1000 crore per annum to the state exchequer. Check the scheme details at –
MP Saral Bijli Bill Scheme 2018 Application Form Download
MP Mukhyamantri Bakaya Bijlee Bill Mafi Scheme Application Form Download
Madhya Pradesh Mukhya Mantri Jan Kalyan Yojana (MMJKY)
All the registered beneficiaries will now be able to get financial assistance and other medical treatment benefits. Moreover, there will be no age limit to avail such benefits. MMJKY also includes other schemes like Wheat Procurement Scheme, Rs. 800 per quintal payment for Lehsun and Rs. 400 payment per quintal for onion. The payment amount will be released through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) directly into the bank account of the farmers.
All the registered beneficiaries can also avail Madhya Pradesh Flat Bill Yojana. Under this scheme, all the beneficiaries who are utilizing electricity bill less than Rs. 1000/- and whose consumption is less than 500 W are eligible. Under this scheme, govt. will provide Electricity at Rs. 200 per month only. In addition to this, govt. will also provide Registration Certificate.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
