


Table of Contents

MP Mukhyamantri Medhavi Vidyarthi Yojana 2018 Registration / StatusMP Mukhyamantri Chhatra Yojana 2018 EligibilityTrack Application Status – MP Mukhyamantri Medhavi Vidyarthi Yojana 2018MMVY Scheme DocumentsReferences
Madhya Pradesh Govt. is inviting online applications for Mukhyamantri Medhavi Vidyarthi Yojana 2018-19. All the meritorious students securing more than 85% marks in CBSE or more than 70% marks in MP Board of Secondary Examination (MPBSE) are eligible for Medhavi Chhatra Yojana 2018 Registration. For all such students, the state govt. will provide the complete admission fees and course fees till graduation. Interested candidates can apply online for MMVY at scholarshipportal.mp.nic.in 
Registration Lines for Mukhya Mantri Medhavi Chatra Yojna are open from 16 June 2018. All the candidates residing in MP and whose parental income is less than Rs. 6 lakh can now fill online application form before the last date arrives. 
All the candidates can firstly check the eligibility criteria for this Mukhya Mantri Medhavi Vidyarthi Yojana scholarship scheme to study till the completion of their Graduation course. Moreover, candidates are advised to select their University (College) and course before making the online application.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

MP Mukhyamantri Medhavi Vidyarthi Yojana 2018 Registration / Status
All the candidates can fill the online application form for Medhavi Chhatra Yojana Registration 2018 on MMVY Portal. At the portal, candidates can also check Applications, Application Recommended for sanction, Application Pending with Institutes, Applications and Amount sanctioned and applications pending at DTE ePayment order. Below is the complete procedure to apply online:-

Firstly visit the official MP Scholarship Portal scholarshipportal.mp.nic.in
On the homepage, click at the “मुख्यमंत्री मेधावी विद्यार्थी योजना” link under ‘Updates’ section or directly click this link
This will open Mukhyamantri Medhavi Vidyarthi Yojana Portal. Here candidates have to scroll over the “Application” section and then click at the “Register on Portal (New Student)” link to open the registration form as it appears below:-
MP Mukhyamantri Medhavi Chhatra Yojana 2018 Registration
Here enter all the details and click at the “Check Form Validations” button to complete the registration process.
Now all the ‘Registered Users can Register and Manage their Application’ by making Application Login as it appears below:-
MP Medhavi Chatra Yojna Login Details

For more details on Mukhyamantri Medhavi Vidyarthi Yojana 2018 Complete Process, click at the link – Process Chart


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

MP Mukhyamantri Chhatra Yojana 2018 Eligibility
The candidates must fulfill the eligibility criteria to fill the online application form:-

Candidates must be a resident of Madhya Pradesh and,
All the applicant students must have secured more than 70% marks in MPBSE and more than 85% marks in CBSE/ ICSC and,
The annual income of the family of the applicants must not exceed Rs. 6 lakh per annum
For complete details, the candidates can check the eligibility criteria using the link – MP Medhavi Vidyarthi Yojana 2018 Eligibility Criteria

For more details on the eligibility criteria, call on the Helpline Number – 0755-2660063
Track Application Status – MP Mukhyamantri Medhavi Vidyarthi Yojana 2018
All the candidates are hereby informed that you can also “Track Your Application Status” through the link given here – Mukhyamantri Medhavi Vidyarthi Yojana Online Application Status. 
Moreover, candidates can also check District wise Payment Statistics and Out of State Institute Wise Application Statistics
MMVY Scheme Documents
— Government Order – View Details
— Detail Procedure Letter 1 – View Details
— Detail Procedure Letter 2 – View Details
— Detail Procedure Letter 3 – View Details
— Guidelines of Out Side State Institutions / Applicants – View Details 
References
— In case of any query, candidates can see Frequently Asked Details – FAQ’s
— Any person finding any difficulty about MMVY can write to [email protected]





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
