


Table of Contents

Mukhyamantri Kaushalya Yojana (MMKY) Online RegistrationHighlights of Mukhyamantri Kaushalya Yojana (MMKY)Eligibility Criteria for Mukhyamantri Kaushalya YojanaCourses under Mukhyamantri Kaushalya Yojana
The state government of Madhya Pradesh has introduced Mukhyamantri Kaushalya Yojana (MMKY) across the state to provide skill training to women. The objective of the scheme is to provide free skill training to the women of the state. MMKY will enhance the overall standard of living for the women and ensure more focus on “Women Empowerment”.
Under Mukhyamantri Kaushalya Yojana, the government will provide free skill training to the women in different skill sets. The target of the scheme is to provide skill training at least 2 lakh women per year starting from 2017-18. The interested candidates can register online through the official website of MP State Skill Development Mission at ssdm.mp.gov.in.
Mukhyamantri Kaushalya Yojana (MMKY) Online Registration
The interested candidates can make online registration for the scheme by following the below given procedure



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Visit the official website at ssdm.mp.gov.in.
Now click on Candidate Self Registration link.
Then a registration form will appear, fill all the details in registration form including Mobile Number, Aadhar Number and other required details.
Finally, click on the “Submit” button to submit the registration form.
Afterwards, a Registration Id/ UserId and Password will be provided to the candidate.
Now candidates can Login by entering User Id and Password and can apply for Mukhyamantri Kaushalya Yojana (MMKY).

Highlights of Mukhyamantri Kaushalya Yojana (MMKY)
Below are some of the main highlights and salient features of the scheme

By providing skills, the scheme will make women capable of getting employed or generate self-employment.
The skills will be given in the Non – Traditional or Traditional sectors to increase the contribution of women in state development.
This scheme will increase the employment opportunities in the state for women.
The scheme will increase the working capacity of women after completion of training.
The time period of training is from 15 days to 9 months (approx. 100 to 1200 hours).
The training will be given free of cost.
This scheme will provide training to around 2 lakh women per year.
The women belonging to Naxalites families are also eligible for getting trained under MMKY.
The standards of the program to improve the training quality and promote the skills will be according to the National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF).
The women who have left their studies in amidst due to family and social restriction will get an another opportunity to improve their skills and find any suitable job or work.

Eligibility Criteria for Mukhyamantri Kaushalya Yojana
The interested candidates will have to fulfill some criteria and documents as given below:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

a) The age of women must be more than 15 years.
b) The minimum passing marks should be in all the subjects of NSQF course list.
c) The women will have to submit some documents like Aadhar Card, Voter Card, Caste certificate, Training Certificate.
Courses under Mukhyamantri Kaushalya Yojana
Mukhyamantri Kaushalya Yojana MP – List of Courses
The interested women who wants to improve their skills and become self dependent can avail free training under this scheme after online registration on the website. 
To candidates can download the scheme brochure in PDF format for more information by clicking on below link
http://ssdm.mp.gov.in/images/MMKYBrochure.pdf





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
