
सीएम कमलनाथ करेंगे मध्य प्रदेश मुख्यमंत्री आवास मिशन (शहरी) का शुभारम्भ, गरीबों के लिए 5 लाख मकान बनेंगे, पत्ते भी मिलेंगे, पहली सूची 15 सितम्बर 2019 को होगी जारी

Table of Contents

MP Mukhyamantri Awas Mission (Urban) Housing SchemeMP CM Awas Mission (Shehri) List of BeneficiariesImplementation of MP CM Awas Yojana 2019
Madhya Pradesh government is going to start MP Mukhyamantri Awas Mission (Shehri) Yojana to provide houses to poor people. In this MP CM Awas Yojana, the state govt. will construct 5 lakh homes for people living in backward and slum areas. MP govt. may invite Mukhyamantri Awas Yojana application forms through online or offline mode after official launch of the scheme. 
All the people who does not have shelter of their own will now get new house under Mukhyamantri Awas Mission (Urban). This new CM Awas Yojana housing scheme will be different from that of central govt’s Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. Poor people in urban areas will get residential land on lease (patta) and pucca houses would be made available to them. 
CM Kamal Nath has announced to launch Jai Kisan Fasal Rin Maafi Yojana 2019-20 for farmers. MP CM will also start distribution of gas connections to Self Help Groups (SHGs).



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

MP Mukhyamantri Awas Mission (Urban) Housing Scheme
All the houses to be built in this MP Mukhyamantri Awas Mission (Urban) would be built on rental basis. The public-private-partnership (PPP) model will be followed for CM Awas Yojana (Shehri). The state govt. will distribute lease documents (patta) of residential land to urban poor. 
MP CM Awas Mission (Shehri) List of Beneficiaries
The Mukhyamantri Awas Mission (Shehri) 1st phase list will be published till 15 September 2019. The complaints and any other grievances in CM Awas Yojana (Shehri) list would be addressed and the final list would be published on 30 October 2019. Pattas would be distributed from 5 November to 20 December 2019. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Even the state govt. will make arrangements of funds to provide assistance to poor people for construction of pucca houses.

मुख्यमंत्री श्री कमल नाथ आज झाबुआ से प्रदेश के शहरी आवासहीनों को आवास उपलब्ध कराने की अति-महत्वाकांक्षी योजना मुख्यमंत्री आवास मिशन (शहरी) का शुभारंभ करेंगे। मिशन में 5 लाख आवास बनाये जायेंगे। pic.twitter.com/qrFVHZTK5M
— CMO Madhya Pradesh (@CMMadhyaPradesh) September 11, 2019
 
Implementation of MP CM Awas Yojana 2019
In this mission, the land costing around 1 to 1.5 lakh would be allocated for poor people in urban areas absolutely free. In addition to this, govt. will provide subsidy of Rs. 2.5 lakh to construct house on that land under Mukhyamantri Awas Mission (Shehri). 
All the poor people in slum areas will get grant of upto Rs. 3 lakh will other beneficiaries can avail grant upto Rs. 1.5 lakh. Similarly, people can avail Rs. 75,000 to 2.25 lakh assistance per house for Land and Infrastructure development works.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://www.bhaskar.com/mp/bhopal/news/5-lakh-houses-to-be-built-for-urban-poor-in-madhya-pradesh-01638649.html
SAVE AS PDF
