


Table of Contents

Introduction to Urja Daksh LED Bulb Ujala YojanaDistribution Network for Urja Daksh LED Bulb Ujala YojanaHow to Get the LED bulb under the scheme
Urja Daksh LED Bulb Ujala Yojana is a new scheme by the Government of Madhya Pradesh. Under the scheme, the state government will distribute 3 crore LED bulbs across the state of Madhya Pradesh. The LED bulbs under the scheme will be distributed at a very low price of Rs. 85 per bulb.
Under the scheme, the state government will distribute 20 lakh LED bulbs in the Rewa district alone within next 6-12 months. The state government will also provide energy efficient fans and agriculture pumps in coming days.
Introduction to Urja Daksh LED Bulb Ujala Yojana
The bulbs to be distributed under the scheme would be of 9 watt but it would be illuminating like 100 watt bulb. The bulb under the Urja Daksh LED Bulb Ujala Yojana will come with a replacement warranty of 3 years. The bulb can be replaced if gets fused before completion of 3 years. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The minimum working capacity of the bulb would be 30,000 hours. Since the bulb will be illuminating like 100 watt bulb, the energy saving would be 91%.
Distribution Network for Urja Daksh LED Bulb Ujala Yojana
The bulbs under the scheme would be distributed through the medium of fixed distribution agents. Energy Efficient Services Limited of Indian Government will also help the state government in this regard. The LED bulbs under the scheme would be available at the following locations.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Akshay Urja Shops
Markets
Post Offices
Power bills collection centers

How to Get the LED bulb under the scheme
Any person can get the LED bulb under the scheme by showing his identity card and paying the minimum Rs. 85 per bulb.
Use of single LED bulb can save up to 25 to 30 units of power per year converting to a money saving of Rs 150 to Rs 180 in a year.
The Urja Vikas Nigam of Madhya Pradesh would implement the scheme at not profit no loss basis. The government is also trying that the Government ans semi-Government officials shall purchase the bulbs from the corporation itself.
Launching of Urja Daksh LED Bulb Ujala Yojana
Launching of Urja Daksh LED Bulb Ujala Yojana in Rewa, MP
If implemented successfully across the state, the scheme will prove to be a great initiative towards energy saving.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
