
Madhya Pradesh govt. has launched Ayushman Bharat – Niramayam Yojana on 23 September 2018. Under AB-MP scheme, govt. will provide cashless medical facility upto Rs 5 lakhs to around 1.37 crore people of the state. MP Niramayam Scheme includes people whose name appears in Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC) 2011 data, Samagra & Sambal beneficiaries. 
As the number of beneficiaries of Sambal Yojana increases, it is expected that the beneficiaries of Ayushman Bharat – Niramayam Yojana will also increase. There is no restriction on family size, age, gender and beneficiaries are not required to pay any premium amount to avail AB-MP (Niramayam) scheme benefits.
Latest Update – Check PMJAY – Ayushman Bharat Hospitals List to find Ayushman Bharat empanelled hospitals.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

People can show either their Aadhar Card or Ration Card or Voter Card or Ayushman Family Card to avail treatment at all govt. / private empanelled hospitals. 
MP Ayushman Bharat – Niramayam Yojana
The state govt. has launched Niramayam Yojana (AB-MP) scheme to provide cashless treatment upto Rs. 5 lakh per family for secondary and tertiary hospitalization. All those families marked in the SECC 2011 database under Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) can avail the benefits of this scheme. In addition to this, Samagra and Sambal beneficiaries in Madhya Pradesh would be able to avail the benefits of National Health Protection Scheme.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Nearly all the illnesses have been included in the AB-NHPM scheme and govt. has fixed package rates for around 1400 diseases. Patients of around 1400 illnesses will be treated in all govt. / private empanelled hospitals as per fixed package. In this Ayushman Bharat – Madhya Pradesh scheme, health security cover is cashless and government will make direct payment to the hospitals where the patient is undergoing treatment. 
AB-MP Scheme is portable in nature which means that if any person from Madhya Pradesh requires medical treatment while he /she is in another state, then they would also be able to get treatment in that particular state as well. But firstly, people will have to check their name in Ayushman Bharat Yojana beneficiaries list at ayushmanbharat.mp.gov.in or mera.pmjay.gov.in A 10 day follow up treatment is also included in Ayushman Bharat – MP (Niramayam) scheme.

मुख्यमंत्री @ChouhanShivraj विधानसभा भवन में आयुष्मान मध्यप्रदेश 'निरामयम' योजना के शुभारंभ कार्यक्रम को संबोधित कर रहे हैं। pic.twitter.com/o9FWBjyXmc
— CMO Madhya Pradesh (@CMMadhyaPradesh) September 23, 2018

Till date, around 250 private and government hospitals are identified in this scheme. Additional allowance and incentives will also be paid to the doctors and para-medical staff working on the basis of their performance. 
AB-MP (Niramayam) Scheme Implementation
Ayushman Mitras have been appointed in various hospitals to assist citizens (patients) and their families to complete the insurance process and paperwork in a faster way. Ayushman Bharat Kiosks are also being setup in these hospitals. All the beneficiaries can check their eligibility and know whether their name appears in the PMJAY beneficiaries list at www.ayushmanbharat.mp.gov.in and https://mera.pmjay.gov.in/ or can call on the helpline number 14555. 
Various implementation committees have been constituted in all districts of Madhya Pradesh for smooth implementation of the Niramayam Yojana headed by the collector. Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is the Vice-president, District Malaria Officer is the Nodal Officer and District Programme Coordinator, Manager District Information System and Manager District Public Grievances Redressal will be the members of committee.

सीएम @ChouhanShivraj आयुष्मान मध्यप्रदेश 'निरामयम' योजना का शुभारंभ 23 सितंबर को सुबह 11 बजे विस भवन में करेंगे। इसमें प्रदेश के 1.37 करोड़ लोगों को 5 लाख रु. तक की कैशलेस चिकित्सा सुविधा मिलेगी। हितग्राही https://t.co/tBnkUPWxl6 व https://t.co/bIa7Ijb787 पर पात्रता देख सकते हैं।
— CMO Madhya Pradesh (@CMMadhyaPradesh) September 22, 2018

Health and Wellness Centres are being setup in the entire state through National Health Mission especially in villages and primary health centres. Counseling by specialists in the area of tele medicine system along with basic health services and facilities will also be provided at these centres. These centres wpuld be named as Madhya Pradesh Arogyam centers and are going to be set up in the state under Pradhan Manri Jan Arogya Yojana.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
