
Single click pension distribution scheme launched by Madhya Pradesh government is a new scheme for elderly people in the state. Under the scheme, the state government aims to send the pension of all the eligible elderly pensioners directly into their bank accounts with a single click. The scheme would be implemented from 1st October 2017.
The pension will directly be deposited directly into the bank account of the elderly pensioners. They would not be required to visit the bank branches to enquire about their pension. The state government would ensure that all the pensioners get their pension on 1st of every month. The government would make continuous efforts to improve the implementation of the scheme.
Single Click Pension Distribution Scheme in Madhya Pradesh is expected to benefit about 35 Lakh pensioners in the state. The state government also announced to provide security and safety to the elderly under a new scheme which will be announced soon. A helpline would also be launched for the elderly for their assistance in any kind of situation.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Single Click Pension Distribution Scheme MP
The government aims to develop a system which ensures that the pension of all elderly pensioners is deposited into their bank accounts within hours and reaches to their hand within 2-3 days. The government is planning to make such an arrangement after joint consideration of panchayat, post office and the bank.
The single click pension distribution scheme would help overall fasten the process and improve the efficiency, transparency and promptness. The government has also invited suggestions from general public to improve the system.The single click pension distribution scheme in Madhya Pradesh is the first of its kind in the whole country under which the pension amount of about 35 Lakh beneficiaries of ten types of pension scheme would be directly deposited into their bank with just a single click.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The scheme was announced by the chief minister of Madhya Pradesh Shri Shivraj Singh Chouhan while addressing a gathering at the state level programme organized on the occasion of World Elderly Day at the Academy of Administration.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
