
Madhya Pradesh govt. has approved the launch of Mukhyamantri Kalyani Sahayati Yojana for widows. Under this scheme, govt. will provide monthly pension of Rs. 300 to all the widows between the age group of 18 to 79 years. All older widows will get Rs. 500 as monthly pension. In addition, govt. will also provide Rs. 2 lakh for remarriage of widows. All the widow will now be called as “Kalyani”.
This is a major step of govt. towards “Women Empowerment”. MP govt. will specially emphasize on widows remarriage and will provide financial assistance of Rs. 2 lakh.
This scheme will make women self reliant and self dependent. Govt. will also encourage people towards elimination of social evils like dowry and child marriage.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

MP Mukhyamantri Kalyani Sahayata Yojana (MKSY)
The important features and highlights of Kalyani Yojna are as follows:-

MKSY is a monthly pension scheme for widows residing in Madhya Pradesh.
Under this scheme, MP govt. is going to provide Rs. 300 per month to widows in the age group of 18 to 79 years.
All the widows above 79 years of age will get Rs. 500 per month as monthly pension.
Moreover, govt. will provide one time financial assistance of Rs. 2 lakh for widow remarriage.
The state cabinet presided over by CM Shivraj Singh Chauhan has taken this decision on changing the name “Widow” to a respected word “Kalyani”.

Mukhyamantri Kalyani Sahayata Yojana MP
MP govt. is possessive towards development and empowerment of women and thus launched Mukhyamantri Kalyani Sahayata Yojana. In all the govt. records and dictionary, the word “widow” will now get replaced by “Kalyani”.
Madhya Pradesh Mukhyamantri Kalyani Sahayata Yojana


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Other Decisions in Cabinet Meeting
State Cabinet has also taken some other decisions for the welfare of farmers:-

Krishi Rin Samadhan Yojana – Mp govt. has announced Kisan Karj Rahat Scheme to provide debt relief to defaulter farmers who were unable to pay off their loans till 30 June 2017. This MP loan Waiver Scheme will waive off the interest on bank loans. MP govt. will provide Rs. 2600 crore for this Krishi Rin Samadhan Yojana / MP Loan Waiver Scheme. This Bank Loan Interest Waiver Scheme will benefit around 17.78 lakh farmers in MP.
Farmers can now pay their bank loans in 2 installments where 1st installment is to be paid till 15 June 2018. After deposition of 1st installment (50% of principal amount), govt. will provide Interest Subsidy and will waive off the interest of defaulter farmers.
Moreover, govt. will approve a new credit limit for another loan in 2018. For this, MP govt. will cover 80% of the debt amount and banks will bear the remaining 20% amount.

MP Loan Waiver Scheme will reduce the burden of bank loans on the farmers in the state and thus reduce the number of suicides.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
