
Madhya Pradesh govt. has approved Mukhyamantri Avivahit Pension Yojana to provide financial assistance to single elderly women above the age of 50 years. Under this unmarried women pension scheme, the state govt. will provide assistance of Rs. 300 per month to single women between the age of 50 to 79 years and Rs. 500 per month to women above 80 years of age or above. Pension to single elderly spinsters is a major step to make such women financially independent.
MP unmarried women pension scheme is a first of its kind scheme in the entire world. Mukhya Mantri Avivahit Pension Yojana would benefit around 75,000 unmarried single women above the age of 50 years. 
Other decisions taken in the cabinet meeting includes the proposals to improve infrastructure and other facilities in temples. Govt. has approved to setup temple management committee and funds for the disbursement of salary of priests. Various posts are also approved in lieu of metro rail pariyojana.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

MP Mukhyamantri Unmarried (Avivahit) Women Pension Scheme
The state cabinet meeting chaired by CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan cleared the proposal to start Unmarried Women Pension Scheme by the Social Welfare and Disability Welfare Department. Now, every women who is unmarried and belongs to MP and is above 50 years of age will receive monthly pension under Mukhyamantri Avivahit Pension Yojana. 
Single elderly women in the age group of 50 to 79 years will get monthly pension of Rs. 300 while those aged 80 years or above will get Rs. 500 per month. This scheme will ensure that all the elderly women who are still unmarried becomes financially independent.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Cabinet committee has also given in-principle approval for separate rooms and toilets for women staff and complainants at around 676 police stations. This project for construction of separate rooms and toilets will cost around Rs 49.10 crore. In Madhya Pradesh, there are around 4.84 crore voters out of which 48% are female voters. These proposals are approved in order to woo the women voters in the state.
MP Mukhyamantri Avivahit Pension Yojana
The other decisions are also taken in the state cabinet meeting on 24 September 2018. This includes approval to 405 posts for metro rail projects in Indore and Bhopal. Also the state govt. has approved the loan proposal of 500 million euro loan from European Investment Bank (EIB) for Bhopal Metro rail project. Now a feasibility report to start the metro rail project in Jabalpur and Gwalior would also be prepared.

मुख्यमंत्री @ChouhanShivraj की अध्यक्षता में मंत्रिमंडल के जनहितकारी निर्णय 
– मुख्यमंत्री अविवाहिता पेंशन योजना को स्वीकृति 
– 676 थानों पर महिला आरक्षक व फरियादी हेतु कक्ष व प्रशासनिक कक्ष के लिए 4984 करोड़ रु. मंजूर #SamriddhMP
— CMO Madhya Pradesh (@CMMadhyaPradesh) September 24, 2018

MP govt. will also provide funds to 100 graduate students to study at top professional coaching centers in Delhi to crack UPSC competitive examinations.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
