
Madhya Pradesh govt. has announced Mukhyamantri Mahila Kosh Scheme on the occasion of International Women’s Day. Subsequently, govt. will provide pension to all such women who are single (unmarried) after they turn 50 years of age. Accordingly, Mahila Kosh Pension Scheme will make single girls independent and thus will play a major role in Women Empowerment. 
Under this scheme, govt. will provide pension on a monthly basis to make women self-reliant. Moreover, govt. will also focus on dignity and pride of such unmarried women. For this reason, govt. also ensures that any person who is found misbehaving with women will have to face severe consequences.
Women are the most important part of society and stressed that most important posts of the country are held by women. CM Shivraj Singh Chauhan has launched this scheme on 8 March 2018.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

MP Mukhyamantri Mahila Kosh Scheme – New Pension Scheme
The important features and highlights of this new pension scheme are as follows:-

All the women residents of MP who are single will now get pension after they turn 50 years of age.
Accordingly, this pension scheme is to transform the thoughts and attitudes towards such unmarried women.
Subsequently, all such unmarried women will receive pension on a monthly basis till the time they get married.
Govt. will ensure strict laws to ensure safety of women in the state and stop incidents of misbehaviour.
This Mahila Kosh Scheme will help unmarried women to lead a hassle free life and easy life after 50 years old.
Moreover, girls are holding important positions in the country and contribute towards overall development of society.
Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan launches this scheme on 8 March 2018.

MP Mukhyamantri Mahila Kosh Pension Scheme
Women form an important part of the society as it is not possible to run a family, country or world without women. Furthermore, CM also lays special emphasis on recently launched National Nutrition Mission and Pan India Expansion of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Scheme.
MP Mukhyamantri Mahila Kosh Scheme Pension


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});






(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
