


Table of Contents

Mukhyamantri Kaushal Samvardhan Yojana (MMKSY) Online ApplicationEligibility Criteria for Mukhyamantri Kaushal Samvardhan YojanaMajor Sectors Covered under Kaushal Samvardhan YojanaMMKSY List of CoursesObjective of Mukhyamantri Kaushal Samvardhan Yojana (MMKSY)
The state government of Madhya Pradesh has introduced the Mukhyamantri Kaushal Samvardhan Yojana (MMKSY) or CM Skill Development Scheme in the state. The aim of this scheme is to provide free of cost skill training to the youth of the state. According to the notification, this scheme will cover about 2,50,000 youth every year across the state.
Through Mukhyamantri Kaushal Samvardhan Yojana (MMKSY), the government will improve the overall standard of living and ensure better quality life of the youth. MMKSY is an integral part of Madhya Pradesh State Skill Development Mission (MPSSDM). Interested and eligible candidates can apply for the scheme through the official website of MP Skill Development Mission at ssdm.mp.gov.in.
State government has allocated funds of Rs. 254.78 crore in its budget to implement of the scheme. In addition, the govt. has also provided the amount of Rs. 274.34 crores to effectively implement MMKSY. By using the benefit of these schemes, youth can develop their skills with the help of short-term skill training. The success of the scheme will increase the contribution of new generation in the progress of the state. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Mukhyamantri Kaushal Samvardhan Yojana (MMKSY) Online Application
Below is the step by step procedure to apply online for MMKSY through the official website of MP skill development mission at ssdm.mp.gov.in.

The candidates have to visit at the official website at ssdm.mp.gov.in.
Now click on “Candidate Self Registration” tab in the header of page or directly click this link.
Afterwards, a registration form will appear, fill all the details including Mobile Number, Aadhar Number etc.
Then click on “Submit” button to go to the next step of registration.
The candidates will get a registration Id / User Id and Password.
The candidates can now ‘Login’ by entering his/her User Id and Password and can fill the online application form of Mukhyamantri Kaushal Samvardhan Yojana (MMKSY)

Eligibility Criteria for Mukhyamantri Kaushal Samvardhan Yojana
The candidate will be selected on their performance in each NSQF courses. But some criteria and documents will be required as given below:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


This scheme is only for the youths’ of Madhya Pradesh
The age of candidates should be above 15 years.
The standards of Indian government (ISI) will approve Minimum educational qualification to all the NSQF courses.
The selected candidate have to submit some documents like Aadhar Card, Voter Card, Caste certificate, Training Certificate.

Major Sectors Covered under Kaushal Samvardhan Yojana


Agriculture
Retail
Plumbing
Construction


Tourism and Hospitality
Apparel Made apps & Home Furnishing
Capital Goods
Banking and Financial Services


Food Processing
Domestic Workers
security
Electronics and Hardware


Furniture and Fittings
Domestic Workers
Telecome
IT and ITES


MMKSY List of Courses
There are a total of 43 courses being offered under the Samvardhan Yojana under 17 different industry verticals. The complete list of the courses can be accessed below.
MMKSY Courses List 1
MMKSY Courses List – 2
The interested candidate can download the complete scheme brochure from this link.
Objective of Mukhyamantri Kaushal Samvardhan Yojana (MMKSY)
The aim of the scheme is to improve provide skill training to the youth and make them employable. Below are some of the main highlights of the scheme

This scheme will help in increasing the employment opportunities in the state for youths.
Moreover, the training in the scheme will be given free of cost to around 2.5 lakh youths (both men and women) per year from 2017-18.
The training period under the scheme will be from 15 days to 9 months (approx. 100 to 1200 hours) for different courses.
The Youth who have left their study in amidst will get an opportunity to improve their skills and find any suitable job or work.
All section of society including women, naxalites youths will get an opportunity for the free residential training.






(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
