


Table of Contents

MP Bhavantar Bhugtan Yojana 2018 Online Registrations for 13 Kharif CropsHow Bhavantar Bhugtan Yojana WorksMadhya Pradesh Bhavantar Bhugtan Yojana (BBY) – Background
Madhya Pradesh govt. is going to restart online registrations for Bhavantar Bhugtan Yojana 2018. Under this scheme, govt. will pay the entire price deficit (bhav + antar) to farmers who incur losses while selling their agriculture produce below MSP. Govt. will start this scheme for 13 Kharif Crops in next couple of days for crops which are being sold below minimum support prices within & outside the state. Farmers can make online registration from 28 July to 31 August 2018 at mpeuparjan.nic.in
The primary objective of this Bhavantar Bhugtan Yojana is to raise farmers income in case of distress sale. In case the kharif crops are being sold at lower price than MSP in markets, then they can apply for BBY Scheme to get their loss covered. 
Market Prices of 13 Kharif Crops are found to be lower than MSP this FY 2018, so the govt. has taken this step to restart MP BBY Scheme 2018.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

MP Bhavantar Bhugtan Yojana 2018 Online Registrations for 13 Kharif Crops
This year, all the farmers finds that market prices of almost all Kharif crops are lower than MSP. So, govt. has decided to resume this Bhavantar scheme for betterment of farmers. Bhavantar Bhugtan Yojana is now launched for 13 crops including Cotton, Moong, Wheat, Urad, Bajra, Rice, Jahwar, Soyabeen, Groundnut, Til, Ramtil, Maize and Toor Daal in the state.
Under this scheme, farmers will get compensation for difference between MSP and price at which farmers sells their produce in the mandi (model price). Model Price is fixed by taking the average price of product in MP and 2 other states where such crop is grown. For scheme benefits, farmers needs to make online registration and sell their agriculture produce at registered agricultural markets.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

How Bhavantar Bhugtan Yojana Works
This is a frequent question in the minds of the people that “How Bhavantar Bhugtan price Deficit Scheme Works”. Here we are telling you the price deficit mechanism. Let us suppose that MSP for maize is Rs. 3,000 per quintal and the modal rate is Rs. 2,500 and:-
— If farmers sells the crop at Rs. 2,700 per quintal in mandi, govt. will pay out Rs. 300 (Rs. 3000 – Rs.2700) per quintal directly to bank account of farmers.
— In case the farmers sells crop at Rs. 2,300 per quintal, then the state govt. will provide only Rs. 500 (Rs. 2300 – Rs. 2500) per quintal for crops sold. 
Madhya Pradesh Bhavantar Bhugtan Yojana (BBY) – Background
BBY Scheme was firstly launched by MP govt. in October 2017 to sustain the falling farm prices. Govt. had launched this scheme in order to provide financial support to the farmers in case of distressed sale in mandis. This year also, there are a lots of distressed sales, so the govt. will resume this scheme for Kharif crops. The online booking will start from 28 July 2018 and will continue till 31 August 2018. For more details, visit the official website – http://mpeuparjan.nic.in/mpeuparjan/Home.aspx
BBY Scheme is a farmer friendly scheme and needs consistent monitoring, inspection and mission mode implementation. Moreover, govt. will focus on exporting these crops in order to ensure that farmers gets more price than MSP price. Currently, market price of moong is Rs. 5,000 per quintal and MSP is Rs. 6,925. For arhar, market price is Rs. 3,900 per quintal and MSP is Rs. 5,650 per quintal. This scheme is a major step towards “Doubling Farmers Income by 2022”. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
