
Madhya Pradesh govt. is going to start MP Sanjeevani Clinics on lines of Mohalla Clinic opened by Delhi government. CM Kamal Nath has inaugurated 1st Sanjivani Clinic in Indore district. In these clinics, govt. will provide treatment and more than 120 types of medicines absolutely free of cost. The main objective is to provide comprehensive healthcare to poor people residing in rural and urban areas. 
Providing quality health facilities is an aspect which affects every age group of persons directly or indirectly. Moreover, these sanjeevani clinics would be opened in 208 places in towns and cities of MP. Out of these 208 clinics, around 88 sanjivani clinics would be opened till March 2020. 
All of these mohalla clinics will remain open on all working days from 10 a.m to 6 p.m (govt. holidays excluded). 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

MP Sanjeevani Clinic (Mohalla Clinics)
The state govt. of Madhya Pradesh will open MP Sanjeevani Clinics in around 208 locations to provide affordable and quality healthcare services to people. At these Sanjivani Clinics, there would be a facility of general consultation (OPD), checkup of pregnant women, vaccination and treatment of communicable diseases. 
These Sanjeevani Clinics will also provide treatment for contagious diseases including cancer, high blood pressure and diabetes. At the MP Sanjeevani Clinics, there would be free checkup for around 68 types of diseases. Moreover, around 120 types of medicines would be provided absolutely free of cost to poor people.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Sanjeevani Express Yojana
To ensure better healthcare facilities, MP govt. had already started replacement of old vehicles under Janani Express (जननी एक्सप्रेस) and Sanjivani Express Yojana (संजीवनी एक्सप्रेस योजना). More than 45 ambulances were made out of services due to their deteriorating condition and new vehicles are being put in place. CM Kamal Nath had earlier flag off 45 ambulances under Janani Express Scheme. 
The main objective of these 2 schemes is to regularly improve the quality of basic facilities being provided to poor people. Any person must not be deprived of basic healthcare services and there must be no division on the basis of their caste, colour and religion.
As per the official reports, there are 737 Sanjeevani and 108 Janani Ambulances currently functional in 51 districts of Madhya Pradesh. These vehicles have already travelled more than 2 lakh 50 thousand kilometers. Furthermore, the state govt. is going to replace 50 old vehicles which are more than 5 years old with the new ones.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://aajtak.intoday.in/story/mohalla-clinics-madhya-pradesh-chief-minister-kamal-nath-medical-facilities-sanjeevani-clinics-1-1143979.html
SAVE AS PDF
