
Madhya Pradesh CM Kamal plans to start Indira Canteen Scheme in the state for poor people. Indira Canteens is a food subsidization programme in which food is offered at subsidized rates to the needy ones. MP Indira Canteen Scheme is going to serve breakfast, lunch and dinner in civic wards of districts and taluka places. MP state govt. is planning to launch this scheme before the upcoming Lok Sabha elections. 
MP Indira Canteen Scheme 2019 aims to provide nutritious meals to poor sections of the society particularly women and children. This scheme will reduce the Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) of new born infants and Maternal Mortality Rate (MMR) of mothers who mainly suffers due to lack of proper nutrition. 
This scheme will provide cheap cooked meals to women and children and the needy people and the state govt. will provide full funds for its successful implementation.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Madhya Pradesh Indira Canteen Scheme 2019
MP Indira Canteen Scheme aims to aid economically disadvantaged sections of society at a subsidized price. This scheme requires municipal corporations in the state to establish canteens at multiple places in cities and sell subsidized food at very low prices. MP Indira Canteens is another major step after the announcement of Jai Kisan Fasal Rin Mafi Yojana – MP Farmer Loan Waiver Scheme. 
Previously, the late CM Jayalalitha had successfully implemented Amma Canteen (Amma Unavagam) in Tamil Nadu. In TN Amma Canteen Scheme, all the canteens run by municipal corporations serves subsidized food at very low price. In these canteens, the dishes are offered at extremely affordable prices like idli at just Rs. 1 and plate of curry leaves rice at Rs. 5.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

After the success of Amma Canteen, Madhya Pradesh had ran the similar scheme in the name of Deendayal Upadhyay Rasoi Scheme in which food is served at Rs. 5. The scheme does not receive much success as in its Tamil Nadu counterpart. 
In 2017, Karnataka has also started a similar Indira Canteen Scheme to provide nutritious meal to poor people. In the southern state, food is served at a price of Rs. 5 for breakfast and Rs. 10 for lunch and dinner rates. The Congress party is now planning to implement the similar model in the state of Madhya Pradesh also.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
