
Madhya Pradesh govt. is going to start MP Berojgari Bhatta Yojana to provide unemployment allowance to youths. Under MP berojgari bhatta scheme, the state govt. may approve to provide Rs. 4,000 to all the jobless youth. It is important to note that the state govt. is not inviting any online application forms for the MP Berojgari Bhatta Scheme. Moreover, it is also not necessary to make registration for MP unemployment allowance scheme at mprojgar.gov.in portal. 
Kamal Nath has directed the administration to start work on an unemployment allowance scheme and the proposal is to be presented in the next cabinet meeting. The state govt. of Madhya Pradesh is also going to start Mukhyamantri Yuva Swabhiman Yojana to guarantee 100 days of work and provide skill development training for urban youth. 
This MP Unemployment Allowance Scheme is going to be the agenda in the next cabinet meeting of Madhya Pradesh government. Unemployment allowance is a pre-poll promise of the state govt. through its manifesto titled “Vachan Patra”. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

MP Berojgari Bhatta Yojana 2019-2020
Chief Minister Office could call a separate cabinet meeting in which official notification for MP Unemployment Allowance Scheme could be issued. The state govt. of Madhya Pradesh is soon going to officially launch MP Berojgari Bhatta Scheme as a part of the empowerment of youth. It is imperative for the applicants, that the state govt. has not started MP Berojgari Bhatta registration and is not inviting online application forms for the same at mprojgar.gov.in 
As a part of empowerment of youths, Vachan Patra of Congress stated that the state govt. shall launch a mission for educated unemployed youth who belongs to Madhya Pradesh and are from BPL families. Under this mission, all the educated unemployed youth including new legal practitioners and tourist guides would be encouraged to set-up start-ups. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

For this purpose, unemployed candidates can avail participation allowance of Rs 4,000 per month for 5 years. This amount would enable them to establish their start-ups or get a permanent job or till the time these candidates becomes IT payees (whichever is earlier) in order to strengthen and motivate them. The mission would be named as Vivekananda Yuva Shakti Mission. 
On 26 January 2019, CM Kamal Nath announced to provide 100 days of guaranteed employment for jobless youth in urban areas similar to MNREGA. That announcement is also going to be presented before the cabinet for approval. CM has also instructed that hike of 2% dearness allowance of state govt. employees which has been due from July 2018 is also going to be presented before the cabinet. Around 10 lakh state govt. employees would be benefited with a cost of Rs. 1098 crore per year. 
The state govt. of Madhya Pradesh is also going to increase the social security pension amount for elderly from Rs. 300 to Rs. 600 per month (gradually to hike to Rs. 1000). All the citizens from BPL families b/w 60 years to 80 years can avail this pension benefits. This hike in the social security pension amount will incur a burden of Rs. 1300 crore annually on the state exchequer.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF
